20
24
BASF Report
Published on March 21, 2025
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
2024 BASF Group
Annual Report
Contents
At a Glance 3
1 Combined Management’s Report 5 2 Consolidated Financial Statements 328
Overview – About This Report and the Combined Statement of Income 329
Management’s Report 6 Statement of Income and Expense Recognized in Equity 330
Balance Sheet 331
1.1 Fundamentals of the Group 9
Statement of Cash Flows 333
BASF Group 9
Statement of Changes in Equity 334
Strategy 18
Notes 336
The BASF Group’s Business Year 39
Forecast 78 3 Further Information 444
Disclosures on BASF SE in Accordance with the German External Audit 445
Commercial Code (HGB) 103
Statement by the Board of Executive Directors 446
1.2 Corporate Governance 111 Independent Auditor’s Report 447
Auditor’s Opinion on the Combined Sustainability
Corporate Governance Report 111
Statement 457
Management and Supervisory Boards 141
Report of the Supervisory Board 462
Declaration of Conformity Pursuant to Section 161 AktG 145
Selected Key Figures Excluding Precious and Base
Declaration of Corporate Governance 146
Metals 472
1.3 (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement 147 Glossary 473
Trademarks 476
ESRS Index 147
General Disclosures 150
Double Materiality Assessment 167
Environmental 178
Social 270
Governance 317
Appendix to the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement 324
Experience the entire report in an
interactive format online: Key to symbols used in the report:
»Our 2024 annual report was also published online on March 21, » You can find more information online. This information is
2025. voluntary and was not audited by the auditor.
BASF Report 2024 Contents 2
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
2024 at a glance
Our integrated reporting combines financial and sustainability reporting.
We inform you how we are developing as a company and how we create
value for our stakeholders.
€65.3 €7.9 5.1%
billion billion
Sales EBITDA before special items ROCE
2023: €68.9 billion 2023: €7.7 billion 2023: 4.5%
€6.9 €0.7 €6.0
billion billion billion
Cash flows from
Free cash flow Capital expenditures
operating activities
2023: €8.1 billion 2023: €2.7 billion 2023: €5.2 billion
EBITDA before special items by segmenta and Other
Million €
1,342
Chemicals
1,167
1,805
Materials
1,650 Core
businesses
1,161
Industrial Solutions
965
814
Nutrition & Care
565
1,375
Surface Technologies
1,520
Standalone
businesses
1,938
Agricultural Solutions
2,270
-578
Other
-466
2024 2023
a Since January 1, 2025, the chemical and refining catalysts business has been reported as part of the Performance Chemicals division in the Industrial Solutions
segment. It was previously part of the Catalysts division in the Surface Technologies segment. The reclassification has not been taken into account in this report unless
otherwise indicated.
BASF Report 2024 At a Glance 3
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Sales and employees by region
By location of company; employees as of December 31, 2024
North America Europe
18.2 15,969 26.2 66,726
Sales (billion €) Employees Sales (billion €) Employees
South America, Africa, Middle East Asia Pacific
5.0 7,156 15.9 21,971
Sales (billion €) Employees Sales (billion €) Employees
Greenhouse gas emissionsa
Million metric tons of CO equivalents
2
2024 17.0
2023 17.0b
2018 21.9
1990 40.1
a Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties)
b The figure for 2023 has been adjusted to reflect updated data.
€2.1 111,822 €11.2
billion billion
Research and Employees at
Personnel expenses
development expenses year-end
2023: €2.1 billion 2023: 111,991 2023: €11.0 billion
BASF Report 2024 At a Glance 4
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
1
BASF Report 2024
Combined Management’s Report
Overview – About This Report and the Combined
Management’s Report 6
1.1 Fundamentals of the Group 9 1.3 (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement 147
BASF Group 9 ESRS Index 147
Sites and Verbund 9 General Disclosures 150
How We Create Value 15 Double Materiality Assessment 167
Strategy 18 Environment 178
Our Strategy 18 E1 Climate Change 178
Our Strategic Levers 20 E2 Pollution Prevention 205
Business Models of the Segments 24 E3 Water 221
Our Steering Concept 28 E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems 231
Targets and Target Achievement 2024 31 E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy 246
Material Investments and Portfolio Measures 33 EU Taxonomy 257
Innovation 37
Social 270
The BASF Group’s Business Year 39 S1 Own Workforce 270
Economic Environment 39 S2 Workers in the Value Chain 292
Results of Operations 46 S3 Affected Communities 303
Net Assets 52
Governance 317
Financial Position 54
G1 Business Conduct 317
Actual Development Compared with Outlook for 2024 59
Appendix to the (Consolidated) Sustainability
Business Review by Segment 61
Statement 324
Other 77
Data Points from Other EU Legislation 324
Forecast 78
Economic Environment in 2025 78
Key to symbols used in the
Outlook 2025 82
Opportunities and Risks 87 Management’s Report:
Disclosures on BASF SE in Accordance with the
German Commercial Code (HGB) 103
ESRS
Corporate Structure 103
This content fulfills the Disclosure Requirements of the
Results of Operations 104
European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS).
Net Assets and Financial Position 106
Forecast, Opportunities and Risks 108 » You can find more information online. This information
Nonfinancial and Other Disclosures of BASF SE 109 is voluntary and was not audited by the auditor.
1.2 Corporate Governance 111 〈 〉 Critically read
The content of this section is voluntary, unaudited
Corporate Governance Report 111 information, which was critically read by the auditor.
Management and Supervisory Boards 141
[ ] Limited assurance
Declaration of Conformity Pursuant to Section 161 AktG 145
The content of this section is not part of the statutory
Declaration of Corporate Governance 146
audit but has undergone a separate limited assurance by
our auditor. If headings are marked accordingly, this
applies to the entire following section.
BASF Report 2024 Combined Management’s Report 5
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Overview – About This Report and the Combined Management’s Report
Content and Structure
This integrated BASF Report 2024 documents BASF’s economic, environmental and social performance
in 2024. Published each year in German and English, the BASF annual report shows how we as a
company create value for our stakeholders and how sustainability contributes to BASF’s long-term
success as an integral part of our corporate purpose and our strategy. The annual report combines the
major financial and sustainability-related information necessary to comprehensively evaluate the
company’s performance. We select the report’s topics based on the principles of completeness,
balance, stakeholder inclusion, sustainability context and double materiality with respect to
sustainability-related information (see Double Materiality Assessment from page 167 onward). In addition
to this report, we publish further information online. Relevant links can be found within each chapter.
The Management’s Reports for the BASF Group and BASF SE have been combined where possible and
not otherwise stated in this annual report pursuant to GAS 20.22. Information relating exclusively to the
parent company (BASF SE) is dealt with in the section “Disclosures on BASF SE in accordance with the
German Commercial Code (HGB).” The reporting period is from January 1, 2024, up to and including
December 31, 2024. Unless otherwise stated, the presentation of the results of operations, financial
position and net assets of the BASF Group with its significant opportunities and risks (for more
information on the results of operations, net assets and financial position, see page 46 onward). The
information on the BASF Group in the aforementioned sections complies with the requirements of
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS®) and, where applicable, the German Commercial
Code (HGB). Internal control mechanisms ensure the reliability of the information presented in this report.
In the 2024 business year, BASF will report pursuant to the CSR Directive Implementation Act
(CSR-RUG) given that the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) had not yet been
transposed into German law. The Combined Management’s Report of the BASF Group and BASF SE
contains a Combined Sustainability Statement. This was prepared in accordance with the requirements
of sections 289b to 289e, 315b and 315c HGB. As a new acknowledged reporting framework in
accordance with section 289d, we are voluntarily applying the first set of the European Sustainability
Reporting Standards (ESRS), published as a delegated act in the Official Journal of the EU on December
22, 2023, for the first time in full – due to their importance as a reporting standard adopted by the
European Commission – and are reporting in accordance with Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852. The
Combined Sustainability Statement includes the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement as well as the
Nonfinancial Statement (NFS) of BASF SE as the parent company of the BASF Group. Due to the
importance of BASF SE within the BASF Group, specific disclosures are required when reporting key
sustainability-related information. Such disclosures also became mandatory for the parent company,
BASF SE, as a result of the CSR-RUG, which came into effect in 2017. An incorporation by reference
option within the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement was selected in the Management’s Report for
the NFS to be issued in the reporting year. The table on page 109 onward shows the relevant
nonfinancial key figures of BASF SE. All disclosures on strategy, due diligence, targets, described
processes and key figures contained in the statements in the Combined Management’s Report including
the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement apply to the BASF Group including BASF SE. No significant
deviations were identified for BASF SE.
Material topics along the value chain form the focal points of our reporting and define the limits of this
report. In identifying, prioritizing and validating material sustainability-related topics, we are guided by the
principle of double materiality, taking into consideration financial materiality and impact materiality (see
page 167 onward). Information on the proportion of the Group’s taxonomy-eligible and our Group-wide
taxonomy-aligned sales revenue, capital expenditures (including acquisitions and excluding goodwill in
BASF Report 2024 Combined Management’s Report 6
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
accordance with the EU taxonomy) and operating expenditures for the 2024 business year can be found
under EU Taxonomy on page 257 onward.
»The 2024 BASF Online Report can be found at basf.com/report.
»The ESRS index can be found directly online at basf.com/esrs_index.
Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
BASF supports the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
We refer to the TCFD-recommended disclosures in various places throughout this report.
Disclosures required by takeover law in accordance with sections 289a and 315a HGB
The disclosures required by takeover law in accordance with sections 289a and 315a of the German
Commercial Code (HGB) can be found in the Corporate Governance section starting on page 137. They
form part of the Combined Management’s Report, which is audited as part of the annual audit.
Declaration of Corporate Governance in accordance with sections 289f and 315d HGB
The Combined Declarations of Corporate Governance of BASF SE and the BASF Group, pursuant to
sections 289f HGB and 315d HGB (see page 146), comprise the chapters Corporate Governance Report
(see page 111) including the description of the diversity concept for the composition of the Board of
Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board (except for the disclosures required by takeover law),
G1 Business Conduct (see page 317) and Declaration of Conformity Pursuant to Section 161 AktG (see
page 145). Pursuant to section 317(2) sentence 6 HGB, the auditor checked that the disclosures
according to section 315d HGB in conjunction with section 289f(2) HGB were made.
Compensation Report
The Compensation Report in accordance with section 162 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) is
publicly available on the BASF website together with the assurance statement of the substantive and
formal audit issued by the auditor.
»The Compensation Report is available at basf.com/compensationreport.
Data and scope of consolidation
All information and bases for calculation in this report are founded on national and international
standards for financial and sustainability reporting. The data and information for the reporting period
were sourced from the expert units responsible using representative methods. More information on our
sustainability parameters and collection of the underlying data can be found under General Disclosures in
the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement from page 150 onward.
The reporting period is the 2024 business year. We include relevant information made available up to
preparation of this report by the Board of Executive Directors at the accounts meeting on March 17,
2025 (editorial deadline).
BASF Group’s scope of consolidation for its financial reporting comprises BASF SE, with its
headquarters in Ludwigshafen, Germany, and all of its fully consolidated subsidiaries and proportionally
consolidated joint operations. Shares in joint ventures and associated companies are accounted for, if
material, using the equity method in the BASF Group Consolidated Financial Statements and are thus not
included in the scope of consolidation. The consolidation principles of sustainability reporting require
application of the concept of operational control with respect to individual disclosures relating to ESRS
BASF Report 2024 Combined Management’s Report 7
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
standards E1 (Climate Change), E2 (Pollution)1 and E4 (Biodiversity and Ecosystems). Operational control
applies to all fully consolidated subsidiaries included in the financial reporting at a minimum. Other
companies under operational control are also covered by these Disclosure Requirements, provided the
companies are significant for reporting purposes. All relevant data corresponds with the reporting period
for the Consolidated Financial Statements. More information on the scope of consolidation for
sustainability reporting can be found under General Disclosures in the (Consolidated) Sustainability
Statement from page 151 onward.
Forward-looking statements and forecasts
This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current estimates and
projections of the Board of Executive Directors and currently available information. Forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of the future developments and results outlined therein. These are
dependent on a number of factors; they involve various risks as well as uncertainties; and they are based
on assumptions that may not prove to be accurate. Such risk factors include, in particular, those
discussed in Opportunities and Risks on pages 87 to 102. We do not assume any obligation to update
the forward-looking statements contained in this report above and beyond the legal requirements.
1 Chapter title in the BASF Report 2024: Pollution Prevention
BASF Report 2024 Combined Management’s Report 8
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
1.1 Fundamentals of the Group
BASF Group
At BASF, we create chemistry for a sustainable future. Our ambition is to
be the preferred chemical company to enable our customers’ green
transformation. We combine economic success with environmental
protection and societal responsibility. Our portfolio is structured into core
businesses and standalone businesses.
Sites and Verbund
BASF production sites
BASF had 111,822 employees in 92 countries in the 2024 business year and operated 235 production
sites worldwide. These include six Verbund sites, which are located in Ludwigshafen, Germany; Antwerp,
Belgium; Freeport, Texas; Geismar, Louisiana; Kuantan, Malaysia; and Nanjing, China. A seventh
Verbund site is currently under construction in Zhanjiang, China. We aim to start up the new Chinese
Verbund site in the fourth quarter of 2025. The Verbund concept is one of our key strengths, enabling us
to intelligently link and steer our plants and permitting resource-efficient, CO -optimized and reliably
2
managed production.
»For more information on the Verbund concept, see basf.com/verbund
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 9
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Organization of the BASF Group
In the 2024 business year, the BASF Group consisted of 11 operating divisions, grouped into the
following six segments:
– Chemicals: Petrochemicals, Intermediates
– Materials: Performance Materials, Monomers
– Industrial Solutions: Dispersions & Resins, Performance Chemicals
– Nutrition & Care: Care Chemicals, Nutrition & Health
– Surface Technologies: Catalysts, Coatings
– Agricultural Solutions: Agricultural Solutions
BASF Group segments in 2024
Core businesses
Chemicals Materials Industrial Solutions Nutrition & Care
The Chemicals segment In the Materials segment, we The Industrial Solutions The Nutrition & Care segment
supplies both external produce advanced plastics and segment develops and markets produces ingredients for
customers and BASF’s other their precursors for processing ingredients and additives for consumer applications such as
segments with basic chemicals industries. industrial applications. human nutrition and cleaning
and intermediates. agents.
– Share of sales: 16.6% – Share of sales: 20.7% – Share of sales: 12.5% – Share of sales: 10.3%
– R&D expenses: €80 million – R&D expenses: €180 million – R&D expenses: €144 million – R&D expenses: €149 million
– Investments including – Investments including – Investments including – Investments including
acquisitionsa: €3,403 million acquisitionsa: €1,139 million acquisitionsa: €289 million acquisitionsa: €809 million
Standalone businesses
Surface Technologies Agricultural Solutions
The Surface Technologies segment produces chemical solutions The Agricultural Solutions segment is an integrated solutions
for surfaces such as automotive OEM coatings, battery materials provider of seeds, crop protection products and digital solutions
and catalysts. for the agricultural sector.
– Share of sales: 19.8% – Share of sales: 15.0%
– R&D expenses: €313 million – R&D expenses: €919 million
– Investments including acquisitionsa: €560 million – Investments including acquisitionsa: €387 million
a Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
BASF implemented a Differentiated Steering concept at the start of the 2024 business year. As part of
this, two new, most important financial key performance indicators for steering the BASF Group in the
short and medium term were established as of January 1, 2024: income from operations before
depreciation, amortization and special items (EBITDA before special items) and free cash flow. EBITDA
before special items and segment cash flow were introduced as the most important financial key
performance indicators for the segments (for more information on the BASF Group’s steering concept,
see page 28 onward). This enables us to provide a higher level of transparency around the results of our
segments (for more information on segment performance, see page 61 onward). Scope 1 and 2 CO
2
emissions remained the most important sustainability-related key performance indicator at Group level.
In addition, we restructured BASF’s portfolio as part of our strategy, which was announced in
September 2024. We now differentiate between core businesses and standalone businesses, which
operate independently. Our core businesses comprise the Chemicals, Materials, Industrial Solutions and
Nutrition & Care segments. They benefit from their deep integration in our value chains and the
Production Verbund. Our standalone businesses are clustered in the Surface Technologies and
Agricultural Solutions segments. These serve distinct industries and compete with peers who focus
exclusively on individual industries (“pure players”). Our standalone businesses now have greater
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 10
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
flexibility and operational freedom, enabling them to react more swiftly and appropriately to specific
market requirements.
The operating divisions, the service units, research and development and the Corporate Center are the
cornerstones of the BASF organization. Regional structures are being dissolved to simplify and
streamline the organization. This new setup lays the foundation for more customer proximity, value
creation, competitiveness and profitable growth.
The operating divisions bear strategic and operational responsibility and are organized according to
sectors or products.
Five service units provide competitive services for the BASF Group:
– Global Engineering Services
– Global Digital Services
– Global Procurement
– European Site & Verbund Management
– Global Business Services (finance and controlling, human resources, safety, intellectual property,
communications, procurement, supply chain, in-house consulting services and real estate)
The Global Business Services unit was revamped, effective November 1, 2024. Clearer roles and
structures were established in order to increase flexibility and at the same time ensure conscious cost
management. The unit has been decentralized and is increasingly focusing on four service areas: regional
and global services, global project consulting, and portfolio and technology management. The latter
drives long-term objectives within Global Business Services and pursues global projects.
Our dedicated research and development units are integrated into the divisions, while activities with
broad relevance for our businesses are bundled in a research division – Group Research. This division is
globally positioned with research centers in Asia Pacific, Europe and North America. With this setup, we
are focusing our research activities on our customers and their industry-specific needs (for more
information, see page 37 onward).
The Corporate Center supports the Board of Executive Directors in steering the company as a whole.
This includes central tasks in the following areas: strategy; finance and controlling; legal, compliance and
insurance; tax; environmental protection, health, safety and quality; human resources; communications;
investor relations; corporate audit and, until the end of 2024, also the Net Zero Accelerator unit.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 11
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Organization of the BASF Group as of January 1, 2025
As part of the implementation of the new strategy, the Catalysts division was restructured, effective
January 1, 2025; as a result, the Surface Technologies segment will now comprise three standalone
businesses going forward instead of two: The Coatings division will remain unchanged, while the
Battery Materials and Environmental Catalyst and Metal Solutions (ECMS) business units have been
established as separate divisions. Additionally, the chemical and refining catalysts business, formerly
part of the Catalysts division, will be reported as part of the Performance Chemicals division in the
Industrial Solutions segment from now on. As a result, the BASF Group comprises 12 operating divisions
as of the beginning of the 2025 business year.
In addition, the activities of the Net Zero Accelerator unit were integrated into existing divisions and
service units, effective January 1, 2025, ensuring that BASF’s green transformation is aligned even more
closely with market trends so that the businesses can even better react to new customer requirements.
Business and competitive environment
As a global company, BASF is present in a large number of markets and operates in the context of
various local, regional and global developments. These include:
– The global economic and political environment
– Legal and political requirements
– International trade agreements
– Industry standards
– Environmental agreements (such as the EU Emissions Trading System)
– Social aspects (such as the U.N. International Bill of Human Rights)
BASF supplies products and services to around 74,000 customers1 from various sectors in almost every
country in the world. Our customer portfolio comprises mainly major global customers and medium-sized
enterprises. We focus on a business-to-business model and on being a partner for a wide range of
downstream industries throughout the world.
We work with over 70,000 Tier 1 suppliers2 worldwide. They provide us with important raw materials,
chemicals, investment goods and consumables, and perform a range of services (for more information,
see page 292 onward).
1 The number of customers refers to all external companies (sold-to parties) that had contracts with the BASF Group in the business year concerned under which sales were
generated.
2 BASF considers all direct suppliers of the BASF Group in the business year concerned as Tier 1 suppliers. These are suppliers that provide us with raw materials, investment
goods, consumables and services. Suppliers can be natural persons, companies or legal persons under public law.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 12
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our most important global competitors include Arkema, Bayer, Celanese, Clariant, Corteva, Covestro,
Dow, DSM-Firmenich, Eastman, Evonik, Huntsman, LyondellBasell, SABIC, Sinopec, SYENSQO,
Syngenta, Wanhua and many hundreds of local and regional competitors. We expect competitors from
Asia, North America and the Middle East in particular to gain increasing significance in the years ahead,
especially as a result of advantageous raw materials and energy prices. 〈BASF is a top-three market
leader in roughly 75% of its core businesses. Equally, our standalone businesses have good to leading
positions in their respective markets.〉
BASF salesa by region 2024
By location of customer
a For more information on taxonomy-eligible sales revenue from the manufacture of organic basic chemicals, see page 257 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 13
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Goals for the Ludwigshafen site
Low market growth rates in Europe, a slow recovery in demand, higher gas prices than in other regions
and ongoing bureaucratic hurdles have significantly burdened the European chemical industry in recent
years. This has affected the Ludwigshafen site in Germany in particular, where production output and
profitability have declined considerably.
As part of our new corporate strategy, we have therefore also addressed the development of a medium-
to long-term vision for the Ludwigshafen site that takes into account the major challenges BASF is facing
in Europe and Ludwigshafen in particular. In addition to short-term cost reduction measures, it addresses
the expected future market and business development in Europe and Germany, particularly with regard
to the sustainability-driven transformation, as well as a clear strategic direction for the further
development of the site. The cost savings measures we have already communicated are contributing to
this.
The starting point for developing the range of objectives was an in-depth analysis of our Verbund
structures. This revealed that, on the one hand, all key value chains and the majority of our plants are
competitive at their core. On the other hand, BASF can benefit from the dynamics of change in the
context of green transformation. The integrated Verbund system at the Ludwigshafen site allows us to
use energy and resources efficiently. Due to the numerous entry points, we can exchange raw materials
in a targeted manner and, for example, use renewable and recycled raw materials in existing plants in a
flexible and scalable way. This ensures that we can supply customers with solutions to enable their green
transformation.
However, there are also plants that are already no longer competitive or are at risk of losing
competitiveness in the medium to long term. An initial package of measures aimed at further adapting
production structures at the site has already been announced and partially implemented. Examples are
the closures of the plants for adipic acid, cyclododecanon and cyclopentanon that were announced at
the end of August 2024.
BASF will also use an additional bundle of measures to adjust its nonproduction structures in
Ludwigshafen and to significantly cut costs. This cost savings program is an addition to the package of
measures focusing on Europe and particularly on Germany from February 2023, with which BASF aims
to achieve around €1.1 billion in cost savings by the end of 2026. Total annual savings of more than
€2.1 billion are expected from the end of 2026. This will make the Ludwigshafen site leaner, stronger and
more competitive. Our goal is to enable Ludwigshafen to operate successfully in the medium to long
term as a leading, sustainable chemical site for Europe with an improved competitive position on the
European market.
Corporate legal structure
BASF SE, the BASF Group’s publicly listed parent company, plays a core role: Directly or indirectly, it
holds the shares in the companies belonging to the BASF Group and is also one of the largest operating
companies. A total of 268 companies including BASF SE are fully consolidated. Nine joint operations are
accounted for pro rata, while 24 companies are accounted for using the equity method (for further
information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements from page 343 onward).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 14
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
How We Create Value
ESRS 2 SBM-1
The following overview shows how we create value for our stakeholders.
Inputs Business model Outputs Outcomes Impact
1
Inputs
Financial Innovations Production
Our aim is to optimize our cost We develop innovative and more Safety, quality and reliability are
of capital, limit financial risks sustainable solutions with our the key to our excellence in
and ensure solvency at all times. customers and suppliers in production.
order to enter new markets and
further increase our productivity.
45.9% ~10,000 €6.0 billion
Equity ratio R&D employees Capital expenditures (capex)
>900,000 €2.1 billion 26%
Shareholders R&D expenses Electricity from renewable sources1
Environmental Employees Partnerships
We use natural resources, Everything we do is based on Trust-based relationships are
among other things, to the expertise, knowledge, crucial to our license to operate
manufacture products and motivation and commitment of and our reputation.
solutions with high value added our employees.
for our customers.
1.2 million metric tons 111,822 >70,000
Renewable resources1 Employees around the world Suppliers
1,507 million m3 €11.2 billion ~74,000
Total water abstraction1 Personnel expenses Customers
1 The sustainability-related key figures shown in this graphic are – unlike the financial key figures shown – not part of the statutory audit but are part of a separate audit with
limited assurance.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 15
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Inputs Business model Outputs Outcomes Impact
Business model
Outputs
Financial Innovations Production
€7.9 billion 1,159 >40,000
EBITDA before special items New patents worldwide Sales products for which we
calculate a carbon footprint2
~€2.0 billion ~€11 billion 6.1 MMT
Proposed dividend payment to Sales of products that have been on CO avoided by the Verbund and
2
shareholders3 the market for up to five years4 combined heat and power
generation2
Environment Employees Partnerships
>1,800 79% 446
Mass balance products based on Engagement index according to our BASF suppliers screened as part of
alternative raw materials2 annual employee survey2 Together for Sustainability2
81% 29.3% ~40
Water demand recirculated2 Women in leadership positions2 Strategic customer networks2
2
2 The sustainability-related key figures shown in this graphic are – unlike the financial key figures – not part of the statutory audit but are part of a separate audit with limited
assurance.
3 Based on the dividend proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and the number of outstanding shares (892,522,164) as of December 31, 2024
4 This is voluntary, unaudited information, which was critically read by the auditor.
2
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 16
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Inputs Business model Outputs Outcomes Impact
Outcomes5
Relevant external impact factors for our company’s success as well as positive and negative impacts of our business activities:
Economic Environmental Social
Selected relevant external impact factors
▪ Customer demand and requirements ▪ Climate change ▪ Demand for more sustainable
▪ Investment readiness ▪ Energy transformation products, willingness to pay
▪ Capital market trends ▪ Availability of/access to renewable ▪ Labor, environmental and social
▪ State of the economy, competitive resources standards
conditions, investment climate ▪ Climate-related legislation ▪ Stakeholder trust
▪ Regulations on product safety ▪ Interest of qualified personnel and
leaders
▪ Sustainability targets of our customers
▪ Demographic change
Selected impacts of our business activities
+ Growth, progress and value creation + Contribution to climate protection/ + Taxes and competitive wages and
for the state, customers, investors and climate change adaptation salaries
employees + Innovation as a lever for climate + Attractive jobs
+ Our customers’ competitiveness and protection + Integration, help to overcome social
innovative strength + Contribution to the circular economy challenges
+ Digital transformation of the industry + More environmentally friendly and safer + Global compliance systems and codes
+ Attractive dividend and share buyback products of conduct
payments to shareholders – Greenhouse gas emissions – Procurement of raw materials with risk
+ Market development through more – Emissions to air and water of violation of, for example, social and
climate-smart products environmental standards
– Land use
– Health and occupational safety risks
– Resource consumption and
nonrecyclable waste – Personnel adjustments
– Potential misuse or spillage of – Restructuring measures
products
BASF
We address positive and negative impacts through:
▪ Supplier management
▪ Corporate strategy ▪ Climate protection and circular ▪ Sustainability projects in the supply
▪ Portfolio management economy initiatives chains
▪ Cost management and cost of capital ▪ Water and energy management ▪ Compliance Program and Code of
optimization ▪ Actions to protect biodiversity Conduct
▪ Differentiated Steering ▪ Responsible Care Management ▪ Employee training programs
▪ Performance management system
6
In providing our customers with solutions to enable their green transformation, we want to
grow profitably and create value.
5 Outcomes shows examples of impacts on our business and impacts that our activities may have on others, the environment and our business environment as well as the
associated measures we take.
6 The results of our double materiality assessment are included in the presentation of external factors and impacts of our business activities. These are not shown in full here. A
comprehensive explanation of the impacts, risks and opportunities identified as part of our double materiality assessment can be found from page 170 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 17
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Strategy
[Our Strategy]
Chemistry is our passion. We set a new direction for ourselves with the
introduction of the “Winning Ways” strategy in September 2024:
Our ambition is to be the preferred chemical company to enable our
customers’ green transformation. We aim to grow profitably and create
value for our shareholders with our broad portfolio of chemicals
businesses as well as our product and process innovations.
Simultaneously, we are driving the shift toward a performance culture –
a decisive factor to successfully implement our “Winning Ways” strategy.
We are systematically integrating sustainability topics into our strategy and
business as well as into our assessment, steering and compensation
systems. This principle remains embedded in our corporate purpose:
We create chemistry for a sustainable future.
ESRS 2 SBM-1
Humankind is facing enormous challenges in its efforts to preserve a world worth living in for future
generations. The climate is changing, natural resources are becoming scarcer, pressure on ecosystems
is increasing and our growing world population needs to be fed. More and more urgently than ever,
solutions are needed for a more sustainable future. Chemistry is of key importance as an essential part of
our everyday lives and the foundation of nearly all industries. It can pave the way to greater sustainability
and accelerate the transformation needed to achieve this.
Competitive conditions in the chemical industry are changing. Our customers are also adapting their
business models – to increasingly reflect a world with lower CO emissions and a more circular economy.
2
The speed of this green transformation varies across regions and customer industries. We expect
demand for chemical products with sustainability attributes to surpass supply in the medium term, which
in turn will lead to greater willingness to pay for low-emission solutions. Because our customers are at
the center of everything we do, our ambition goes beyond the green transformation of our own
production. We want to be the preferred chemical company to enable our customers’ green
transformation.
This is also where we see the main driver of our profitable growth: Our goal is for customers to be
successful in their respective markets thanks to our innovations. Our products, solutions and
technologies help protect the environment and climate by contributing to the more efficient use of raw
materials, reducing waste, and enabling healthy and affordable food as well as climate-smart mobility. In
providing our customers with the best solutions and processes, we also want to grow profitably and
create shareholder value. Simultaneously, we are driving the change of our corporate culture toward a
performance culture. We have defined four levers to ensure the successful implementation of our
“Winning Ways” strategy: Focus, Accelerate, Transform and Win (for more information on the strategic
levers, see page 20 onward).
As part of its new strategy, BASF has updated its shareholder distribution policy and set medium-term
financial targets for the first time (for more information on the global targets, see page 31 onward). We
remain committed to our climate protection targets and other global sustainability-related targets,
including the alignment with our TripleS (Sustainable Solution Steering) portfolio assessment
methodology, (see page 161). We have defined a new circular economy target and we have adjusted our
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 18
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
supplier target and are now focusing on improving the sustainability performance of those suppliers
whose audit results were inadequate.
In the future, BASF will place a greater focus on cash generation. We aim to demonstrate a high degree
of capital discipline through considerably lower capital expenditures and the consistent implementation
of our cost savings programs (for more information on capital and resource allocation, see the section on
the Focus lever on page 20).
As an international chemical company, we will continue to operate in markets and countries with different
requirements and conditions. We are guided by our values and our global standards in order to act
responsibly and secure our license to operate. The main guidelines are summarized primarily in our BASF
policies on compliance, human rights, labor and social standards and in the Supplier Code of Conduct.
With appropriate management and monitoring systems, we want to ensure that we act in line with the
applicable laws and uphold our responsibility to the environment and society. 〈Customers, shareholders,
partners and employees can rely not only on the high quality of our products, but also on the way in
which we conduct business to fulfill our corporate purpose:〉 We create chemistry for a sustainable
future.
With our CORE values, we combine economic success with the creation of value for the environment and
society and stand for respectful interaction with each other and with our customers and partners:
C – creative: We make great products and solutions for our customers. This is why we embrace bold
ideas and give them space to grow. We act with optimism and inspire one another.
O – open: We value diversity, in people, opinions and experience. This is why we foster feedback based
on honesty, respect and mutual trust. We learn from setbacks.
R – responsible: We value the health and safety of people above all else. We make sustainability part of
every decision. We are committed to strict compliance and environmental standards.
E – entrepreneurial: We focus on our customers, as individuals and as a company. We seize
opportunities and think ahead. We take ownership and embrace personal accountability.
Our standards are based on, and in some cases, exceed existing laws and regulations and take
internationally recognized principles into account. We respect and promote:
– The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations (U.N.) and the two U.N. Human
Rights Covenants
– The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact
– The core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Tripartite Declaration
of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy
– The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
– The Responsible Care® Global Charter of the International Council of Chemical Associations
– The German Corporate Governance Code
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 19
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
[Our Strategic Levers]
BASF’s strategic direction is based on a comprehensive analysis of our
markets, competitors and the economic environment. We continuously
monitor global trends and short-term developments and anticipate the
resulting opportunities and risks. In doing so, we keep a close eye on the
demands of our customers and the transformation of our company.
Our new “Winning Ways” strategy is based on four strategic levers:
Focus, Accelerate, Transform and Win.
Focus
Under the Focus lever, we have redefined our portfolio management approach. BASF now makes a
distinction between core businesses and standalone businesses, which serve specific industries and
operate independently. The core businesses comprise the Chemicals, Materials, Industrial Solutions and
Nutrition & Care segments, which are integrated into BASF’s value chains and Production Verbund at
major sites. 〈They generate value through efficient use of resources, operational excellence and cost
efficiency.〉 The portfolio of our core businesses ranges from basic chemicals to specialties. The
standalone businesses, which have greater flexibility and operational independence, comprise the
Surface Technologies segment with the Environmental Catalyst and Metal Solutions (ECMS), Battery
Materials and Coatings divisions as well as the Agricultural Solutions segment (for more information on
the segments and operating divisions, see page 24 onward).
In the coming years, we will focus on strengthening our core businesses and growing profitably in these
areas – both organically as well as through value-increasing acquisitions: We see the expected
consolidation of the chemicals industry as an opportunity for BASF. We want to operate our core
businesses in an even more cost-efficient and leaner manner in order to secure their profitability and
competitive advantage over emerging competitors, in particular from the Middle East and China.
Our standalone businesses ECMS, Battery Materials, Coatings and Agricultural Solutions compete with
pure-play peers that are subject to their own market trends. To empower these businesses to respond
quickly to the specific requirements of their customers, we want to further promote their entrepreneurial
freedom and thus strengthen their competitive position. To that end, we are pursuing a Differentiated
Steering concept with industry-specific financial steering indicators (for more information, see page 28),
adjusted governance structures, tailor-made processes and standalone ERP (enterprise resource
planning) systems. These measures increase the businesses’ accountability and the transparency of their
performance compared with competitors. We intend to make further investments in our standalone
businesses in the future and will continue to actively pursue portfolio options:
– Our ECMS business was carved out in 2023. It operates in a low-growth industry but continues to
deliver a strong cash contribution. We are open to a value-increasing transaction in the future.
– Our Battery Materials business operates in a rapid-growth environment characterized by high market
and technology risks. We are de-risking the path forward by focusing on filling existing capacities and
adapting our expansion plans. We are exploring opportunities for collaboration with partners.
– For our Coatings division, we are assessing strategic options for value creation. In February 2025, we
signed an agreement to sell our decorative paints business in Brazil (for more information, see
page 86).
– For the Agricultural Solutions segment, we will complete the legal separation and the introduction of
a separate ERP system by 2027. By then, we also want to create the conditions for a potential IPO. In
the medium term, a minority share listing is an option.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 20
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
To focus more strongly on cash generation and strengthen our capital discipline, we are changing our
internal steering processes for capital and resource allocation. We are moving from a largely project-
based approach at BASF Group level to a strategic allocation approach for our divisions. We have
developed medium-term value creation plans for the divisions based on their respective roles in the
BASF portfolio. These plans are the basis for capital allocation. Within this framework, the divisions are
empowered with increased autonomy to make business decisions – and with it their accountability for
business success.
The strategic focus on profitable growth also means prioritizing high-growth markets. In particular, we
want to expand our presence in China, India and five ASEAN countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore,
Thailand and Vietnam) by strengthening local organizational structures, our production sites and our R&D
activities. These seven countries will account for almost 80% of global chemical growth by 2035.
Accelerate
With the Accelerate lever, BASF is targeting more speed in value creation. We will streamline the way in
which we collaborate and complete tasks at BASF and become faster as a result. To this end, we want to
empower our business units through lean and differentiated steering, simplify our organizational structure
and increase the use of artificial intelligence (AI).
The accountability of the divisions will be a central element of the BASF Group’s steering. The Board of
Executive Directors will focus on topics that are important to BASF as a whole: strategy, portfolio
management, capital allocation and talent development. By contrast, individual divisions will have greater
ownership of specific business decisions and accountability for business success. In line with this, we
will further develop the performance management system for our leaders and employees and establish a
closer link between incentives and unit-specific performance.
We are making our organization simpler and leaner by sharpening role clarity, establishing flatter
hierarchies and by reducing bureaucracy and internal alignment processes. Spans of control will be
broadened to increase individual ownership. An important step in this direction is dissolving the regional
dimension of our organizational structure. With this simplified organizational setup, we are aiming to
accelerate decision-making in all areas of our company.
BASF wants to harness the potential of AI to advance productivity and accelerate innovations. We aim to
gradually enable the global BASF team to utilize AI for their respective areas of work. Here, we target key
functions such as sales, marketing, R&D, production, procurement and services and focus on
applications with added value confirmed by fast and effective pilot projects.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 21
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Transform
ESRS 2 SBM-1
The Transform lever represents shaping and successively implementing our market-oriented green
transformation toward a more sustainable product portfolio. Going forward, we will intensify our focus on
products with sustainability attributes where we see increasing customer demand.
We see sustainability as an integral part of our strategy as well as our targets, steering processes and
business models. We remain fully committed to our climate protection targets (for more information on
our sustainability strategy, see page 158 onward and for more on our targets, see page 31 onward). Our
ambition goes beyond the green transformation of our own production: Our key customer industries are
facing tremendous challenges in achieving their transformation targets. We therefore want to be the
preferred chemical company to enable our customers’ green transformation with our broad portfolio as
well as our product and process innovations.
As market developments and therefore also the speed of the green transformation vary between regions
and customer industries, we are adapting our transformation approach: Rather than focusing primarily on
our own corporate targets, we will prioritize a market-oriented approach in the future. By driving
transformation in a more differentiated and focused way as well as in line with market growth and
increasing customer demand, we are forging a new path toward profitable growth. With our market-
oriented concept, we are simultaneously mitigating the investment and business risks resulting from
capital-intensive new technologies and the varying transformation speed of our customer industries. We
want to intensify our focus on specific opportunities for our business and increase volumes of products
with sustainable attributes according to customer needs. To that end, we are prioritizing projects where
we see customer demand growing or that impact our license to operate.
Over time, we will stagger further transformation projects based on these priorities. We have already
procured significant amounts of renewable energy to operate our plants. Furthermore, we are currently
piloting new technologies in selected value chains, using alternative raw materials and have launched
products with new sustainable attributes such as a reduced or net-zero product carbon footprint (Low/
Zero Product Carbon Footprint; LowPCF/ZeroPCF). In the next phase, we will focus on ramping up the
use of bio-based and recycled feedstocks in our existing plants and thus offering more products with a
reduced carbon footprint and other sustainable attributes at low capital expenditure. At the same time,
we will continue evaluating new business models and technologies. As markets for sustainable products
grow, we want to be in a position in the medium to long term to apply and scale up the new technologies
we are currently developing and, in some cases, already piloting. The gradual approach is also reflected
in spending: Transformation-related spending is expected to be moderate from 2025 to 2028, averaging
€600 million per year. We assume that most major capital expenditures for our green transformation will
be made after 2030.
BASF’s integrated Verbund system offers fundamental advantages for the transformation approach of
prioritizing projects based on customer demand and gradually driving them forward. This is due to the
energy and resource efficiency provided by the Verbund and the numerous entry points that offer
feedstock flexibility. We can be flexible and scalable in how we employ renewable and recycled
feedstocks in existing plants. We therefore expect that our largest site in Ludwigshafen, Germany, with
its integrated Verbund, as well as BASF as a whole, will benefit from the change and growth momentum
in connection with the green transformation. In the medium to long term, our goal is to successfully
develop Ludwigshafen into a leading, sustainable chemical site for Europe with an improved competitive
position in the European market. To that end, we have conducted a thorough analysis of our production
asset structure based on current and future market and customer demand: Selected plants and
production lines are no longer delivering sufficient earnings or are at risk of losing competitiveness.
However, the majority of the assets in the Ludwigshafen Verbund are competitive in their respective
markets (for more information on goals for the Ludwigshafen site, see page 14).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 22
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Win
The Win lever is how we want to drive change in corporate culture throughout the entire company. Our
“Winning Culture” is based on three cultural topics – Accountability (Own it!), Speed (Drive it!) and
Improvement Mindset (Excel in it!) – that are central to BASF evolving into an even more performance-
driven organization. This transformation to a “Winning Culture” is a decisive factor for us in successfully
implementing our “Winning Ways” strategy.
To this end, we have developed nine actionable Winning Behaviors: They define the behavior that we
expect all our employees to demonstrate and show in a concrete way how each and every individual can
contribute to successful change. We want to drive a corporate culture that honors accountability,
prioritizes speed over perfection and rewards the best solution over compromises.
Accountability:
– We give and take ownership over narrow supervision.
– We strive for results, not staying in the comfort zone.
– We take action on low performance, not dragging it along.
Speed:
– We prioritize speed over perfection.
– We spread motivation and inspiration, not skepticism.
– We focus, not do a bit of everything.
Improvement Mindset:
– We fight for the best solution over compromises.
– We give candid and constructive feedback, not empty phrases.
– We learn from external perspectives, not just from internal views.
Our CORE corporate values (creative, open, responsible, entrepreneurial) will remain the guide for our
behavior (for more information, see page 19).
Further developing our corporate culture goes hand in hand with an enhanced performance management
system for leaders and employees with a closer link between incentives and unit-specific achievements.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 23
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Business Models of the Segments
Our segments’ business models are aligned with their specific strategic
action areas. Customer orientation, innovation and sustainability are the
cornerstones of future business success. Thanks to our extensive industry
knowledge, we are aware of the particular challenges our customers are
facing and we can offer specific solutions that support them in their green
transformation and make them even more successful.
Chemicals
The Chemicals segment is one of our core businesses and forms the heart of the Verbund with its
production facilities. Its Petrochemicals and Intermediates divisions market high-quality basic chemicals
and intermediates to customers in downstream industries. They also reliably supply BASF’s other
segments with chemicals to produce higher value-added products and in this way, ensure the
competitiveness of the BASF Group.
The segment strives for technological leadership and operational excellence and focuses on individual
value chains. It concentrates on the essential success factors of the traditional chemicals business:
leveraging economies of scale and the advantages of our Verbund, high asset reliability, continuous
optimization of access to raw materials, lean and energy-efficient processes, and reliable, cost-effective
logistics. This enables fundamental cost advantages and opens up various opportunities for
decarbonization. The segment creates value through process and product innovation and invests in
research and development to implement new, sustainable technologies and make existing technologies
even more efficient. Thanks to our integrated production processes, the carbon footprint of a number of
our products is significantly lower than that of our competitors. Furthermore, by using renewable and
recycled feedstocks in our production network, we can provide products with diverse sustainability
attributes. Examples of these offerings include our LowPCF, ZeroPCF and Ccycled® products. The
Chemicals segment is thus positioned to drive BASF’s green transformation while supporting that of our
customers.
The two divisions are continuously developing their value chains and are expanding their market
position – especially in Asia – with investments and collaborations in growth markets. We want to
participate in the growth of the largest chemicals market in the world and are thus currently focusing
primarily on the completion and startup of our Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China, which we have planned
as a pioneering project for sustainability. We are also continuously reviewing and improving our
production structures in other regions and aligning them with regional market requirements, as
demonstrated by the capacity expansions at the Verbund site in Antwerp, Belgium and the adapted
vision for the future of the Verbund in Ludwigshafen, Germany (for more information, see page 14).
Materials
In terms of production capacity, the Materials segment is a global leader in high-performance plastics
and precursors and home to two divisions from BASF’s core businesses. The Monomers division has a
broad portfolio of large-volume monomers and basic polymers in the isocyanate and polyamide value
chains and follows a lean and cost-driven approach focused on efficient structures. The Performance
Materials division offers innovative and customized solutions in engineering plastics, polyurethanes and
thermoplastic polyurethanes, and creates value through cocreations with customers, particularly in the
field of sustainability. Our global production network enables us to provide our solutions wherever our
customers are. At the same time, we constantly review the efficiency of our production network in order
to improve it continuously.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 24
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The Materials segment combines expertise in basic chemicals with a diverse range of high-performance
specialties and successfully operates some of BASF’s most profitable value chains, including methylene
diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI). Throughout the chemical cycle, the Materials segment plays an important
role in BASF’s portfolio with its high cash flow and earnings contributions. The fully integrated
polyurethane and polyamide value chains with world-scale plants ensure cost advantages. Building on
our R&D capabilities, the segment develops new, more sustainable high-performance materials and
applications for a broad range of industries.
Both divisions follow ambitious sustainability road maps to enable the green transformation of the
customer industries they serve. They understand sustainability as the decisive factor for future business
success and utilize their industry knowledge and application expertise to provide customers with the
right solutions. The segment holds one of three top market positions with regard to production capacities
in around 80% of its business areas, including polyamide 6, thermoplastic polyurethanes, polyurethane
systems and engineering plastics.
Industrial Solutions
The Industrial Solutions segment is a part of the BASF Group’s core businesses and markets and
develops ingredients and additives for industrial applications. The customers of its two operating
divisions, Dispersions & Resins and Performance Chemicals, are primarily active in the following key
industries: paints and coatings, construction, electronic materials, chemicals, plastics and adhesives,
paper coatings, automotive and energy and resources. The segment aims to generate value through
customer proximity, in-depth industry expertise and a broad product portfolio that is tightly integrated
into the BASF Verbund. The portfolio includes fuel and lubricant solutions, dispersions, resins and
additives, electronic materials and plastic additives. The segment’s focus is on research and
development with the aim of enabling a more efficient use of resources and developing high-
performance and more sustainable products and production procedures. This also enables our
customers’ green transformation through their applications and processes. Furthermore, the divisions
focus on efficient production setups and backward integration in our Production Verbund’s value chains.
In addition, capacity management as well as technology and cost leadership are important levers for the
segment.
Trends such as ever faster time to market for electronic materials innovations, longer product life cycles
and increasing processing of recycled plastic are boosting the need for products that have precisely
these characteristics. With its broad product portfolio, the segment is ideally positioned for this. Our
global presence enables us to operate close to our customers, collaborate with them on new solutions
and strive for long-term partnerships that create mutually profitable growth opportunities.
Since January 1, 2025, the chemical and refining catalysts business has been reported as part of the
Performance Chemicals division in the Industrial Solutions segment. It was previously part of the
Catalysts division in the Surface Technologies segment.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 25
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Nutrition & Care
The Nutrition & Care segment is also part our core portfolio. The Care Chemicals and Nutrition & Health
divisions provide highly attractive and resilient markets with high-quality, high-performance products.
Future growth in these markets will be driven by rising consumer awareness of sustainable product
solutions with lower carbon footprints and the demand for natural and organic ingredients and their
traceability. Moreover, digitalization, a focused technology and product portfolio, and close cooperation
with our customers are crucial to meeting the dynamic market requirements.
For this segment, we strive to expand its market position as a leading provider of nutrition and care
ingredients. The divisions generally focus their portfolio on growth markets and continuously develop
their capabilities in areas such as biotechnology. They offer new bio-based and biodegradable products.
The Care Chemicals division supports its customers globally with innovative and more sustainable
high-performance products, solutions and concepts, especially in the cosmetics, detergent and cleaner
industries. The Nutrition & Health division focuses on important product platforms (vitamins, carotenoids
and feed enzymes), which are supplemented by selected growth fields such as special aroma ingredients
and biopharma ingredients. With its (bio)pharma ingredients, the division serves a variety of markets,
such as bioprocessing and formulation of vaccines and antibodies.
The basis for this segment’s business are highly competitive, world-scale plants that are deeply
embedded in the BASF Verbund.
Surface Technologies
Some of our standalone businesses are bundled in the Surface Technologies segment, which consisted
of the Catalysts and the Coatings divisions until the end of 2024. Together with our customers, we
develop novel products and technologies for catalysts, coatings and battery materials. We also offer
services in the areas of precious metals and base metals as well as surface treatments. Our aim is to
drive growth by leveraging our portfolio of technologies to find the best solution for our customers in
terms of functionality and cost. This helps our customers to drive forward innovation in their industries
and contribute to more sustainable development.
Our key growth drivers are the positive medium-term development of the demand for chemicals in the
automotive market, especially in Asia, and the shift toward sustainable low-emission mobility. Despite the
current slowdown in the mobility transition, we are convinced of the long-term growth of the electric
vehicle market. As one of the largest chemical suppliers to the automotive industry, the segment is
developing customized, more sustainable solutions for battery materials, emission control, recycling and
innovative coatings in close cooperation with its customers. Our specialties and system solutions in
these areas enable our customers to stand out from their competitors.
As of the beginning of the 2025 business year, the battery materials and ECMS business units, which
were formerly part of the Catalysts division, are being reported as separate operating divisions within this
segment, in addition to the Coatings division (for more information, see page 12). Additionally, since
January 1, 2025, the chemical and refining catalysts business, formerly part of the Catalysts division, has
been reported as part of the Performance Chemicals division in the Industrial Solutions segment.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 26
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Agricultural Solutions
The goal of efficient farming has to be to provide healthy and affordable food globally to a rapidly
growing world population1 with an increasing demand for food, feed and energy. At the same time,
farmers must reduce their environmental impact as natural resources are limited. We support them in
achieving this and strive to contribute to build a sustainable future for agriculture by connecting
innovation, customers and society.
As one of the world’s top agricultural solutions companies in terms of sales, we are making a positive
impact on sustainably transforming agriculture and food systems. Our innovation-driven strategy focuses
on selected crops and their appropriate cultivation systems: soy, corn (maize) and cotton in the
Americas; wheat, canola (oilseed rape) and sunflower in North America and Europe; rice in Asia; and fruit
and vegetables globally. Our sustainability approaches are integrated into all business and portfolio
decisions. In doing so, we help farmers sustainably grow more and higher-quality crops.
We leverage our expertise in research and development as well as our many years of experience working
with growers to provide crop-specific offers across technologies. These include novel solutions for
seeds, traits, fungicides, herbicides, insecticides, biological solutions and digital products tailored to the
farming needs of their region and crop systems.
1 Compared with 2024, the world’s population is expected to grow by around 1.5 billion people by 2050; source: U.N. World Population Prospects 2024.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 27
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our Steering Concept
We have firmly anchored our goal of achieving profitable growth while
creating value for society and our shareholders in our strategy. For this
reason, both financial and sustainability-related indicators are an integral
part of our steering system. With our Differentiated Steering approach, we
aim to increase the competitiveness of our business units and thus the
profitability of the BASF Group.
Steering concept of the BASF Group
At the beginning of 2024, we introduced a Differentiated Steering concept, which is reported at the
segment level. The goal is to empower our business units through this approach. We also want to create
a clearer distinction between short- and medium-term steering. Key criteria in the selection of industry-
specific financial steering indicators are the respective strategic direction of the business, the role of the
business in BASF’s portfolio and the contribution of the business to achieving corporate targets. In
addition, we are benchmarking our performance even more closely against that of our competitors.
As part of this, we have established two new most important financial key performance indicators for
the BASF Group’s steering. Short-term influencing factors, such as the development of earnings or
current operating assets, are controlled directly via two indicators:
– Income from operations before depreciation, amortization and special items
(EBITDA before special items)
– Free cash flow
Return on capital employed (ROCE) is significantly influenced by strategic decisions such as acquisitions,
divestitures and investments. It remains a medium-term key financial target for the BASF Group. This is
reflected in our ROCE target of around 10% in 2028. It emphasizes the importance of managing our
return on capital employed over time.
Scope 1 and 2 CO emissions remain the most important sustainability-related key performance indicator
2
at Group level. We see sustainability as a decisive factor for our long-term business success.
As part of the “Winning Ways” strategy and the clear distinction between core and standalone
businesses enshrined therein, the steering concept for the segments was adjusted in the second half of
2024. Accordingly, all segments are now measured by their absolute contribution to EBITDA before
special items. This is an earnings indicator that describes the operational performance independent of
age-related depreciation and amortization of assets and any impairment or reversal of impairment. The
key figure is therefore particularly suitable for indicating the profitability of a business and for
comparisons with businesses in similar sectors.
To manage cash flow at segment level, we use a specific key figure, segment cash flow, which includes
the elements of free cash flow that can be managed by the operating divisions. This key performance
indicator also applies to all segments.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 28
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Value-based management throughout the company
The target agreement process is an important part of our value-based management. Since 2024, variable
compensation for senior executives has been based on targets derived from the key performance
indicators for the steering of the respective business unit and the BASF Group. We plan to introduce this
differentiated bonus system for all other employees over the course of 2025. This underscores the further
increased autonomy of the divisions as part of the “Winning Ways” strategy and their accountability for
business success.
Key figures in reporting
In line with the new steering concept, in financial reporting we analyze, comment on and forecast the
most important key performance indicators EBITDA before special items and free cash flow for the
BASF Group, and EBITDA before special items and segment cash flow for the segments.
Capital expenditures that have a direct impact on ROCE serve as an additional key performance
indicator for the BASF Group. Capital expenditures are used to manage capital employed in the
BASF Group. These comprise additions to property, plant and equipment excluding additions from
acquisitions, IT investments and restoration obligations as well as right-of-use assets arising from leases.
We will continue to forecast cash flows from operating activities and payments made for property, plant
and equipment and intangible assets as key factors for free cash flow.
In addition, we continue to analyze and comment on sales at Group and segment level, but we do not
forecast them.
Calculation of EBITDA before special items
EBITDA is the result from income from operations reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements plus
depreciation, amortization, impairments and reversals of impairments on property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets. This is adjusted for special items that may arise from the integration of acquired
businesses, from restructuring measures, from gains or losses resulting from divestitures and sales of
shareholdings as well as from other expenses and income that arise outside of ordinary business
activities.
Calculation of free cash flow and segment cash flow
Segment cash flow measures the cash inflow and outflow of a segment and thus its contribution to the
BASF Group’s free cash flow. It includes only those amounts that can be steered by the segment and is
calculated from EBITDA, changes in inventories and trade accounts receivable, and other extraordinary
adjustments (such as those related to acquisitions and divestitures), less payments for intangible assets
and property, plant and equipment. The BASF Group’s free cash flow also includes components of cash
flow from operating activities that are not allocated to the segments as well as adjustments of other
noncash effects.
Free cash flow is the cash flows from operating activities less payments made for property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 29
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Reconciliation of segment cash flow to free cash flow
EBITDA of the segments
+ Changes in inventories
+ Changes in trade accounts receivable
+ Gains (-) / losses (+) from the disposal of noncurrent assets and divestitures
– Payments made for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Segment cash flow
+ Net income from shareholdings
+ Financial result
+ Income taxes
– Income after taxes attributable to noncontrolling interests
+ Changes in items included in the segment cash flow that are recognized under Other
+ Remaining items recognized in cash flows from operating activitiesa
Free cash flow
a These include trade accounts payable, provisions, other operating assets, other operating liabilities and pension provisions as well as equity-accounted income, dividends
received from equity-accounted investments and other noncash items.
Calculation of CO emissions
2
We calculate the BASF Group’s absolute CO emissions on the basis of greenhouse gas emissions,
2
which are the sum of direct emissions from production processes and the generation of steam and
electricity (Scope 1), as well as indirect emissions from the purchase of energy (Scope 2). Direct
emissions from the generation of energy for third parties are not considered here. Relevant emissions
include other greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which are converted into
CO equivalents (for more information, see page 178 onward).
2
Calculation of ROCE and cost of capital
ROCE is calculated as the EBIT of the segments as a percentage of the average cost of capital basis.
To calculate the EBIT of the segments, we take the BASF Group’s EBIT and deduct the EBIT of activities
recognized under Other, which are not allocated to the divisions.
The cost of capital basis is calculated using the month-end figures and consists of the operating assets
of the segments. Operating assets comprise the current and noncurrent asset items of the segments.
They include property, plant and equipment as well as intangible fixed assets, integral investments
accounted for using the equity method, inventories, trade accounts receivable, other receivables and
miscellaneous assets and, if applicable, the assets of disposal groups, insofar as they are allocated to
the segments. The cost of capital basis also includes customer and supplier financing.
We have integrated the cost of capital percentage into our ROCE target as a comparative figure. This is
determined using the weighted cost of capital from equity and borrowing costs (weighted average cost of
capital). To calculate a pretax figure similar to EBIT, the cost of capital is adjusted using the expected tax
rate for the BASF Group for the business year. In addition, the projected net expense of Other is already
provided for by an adjustment to the cost of capital percentage. The cost of equity is ascertained using
the capital asset pricing model. Borrowing costs are determined based on the financing costs of the
BASF Group. The cost of capital percentage for 2025 is 10% (2024: 10%).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 30
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Targets and Target Achievement1
For us, long-term business success means creating economic, ecological
and social value, which is why we pursue ambitious targets along the
entire value chain. We report transparently on target achievement so that
our stakeholders can track our progress.
Our objective is profitable growth – we have set new financial targets as part of our corporate strategy
and adjusted our dividend policy. In the 2028 business year, we want EBITDA before special items to
reach a value between €10 billion and €12 billion in moderate to good economic conditions. The
cumulative free cash flow for 2025 to 2028 is expected to be more than €12 billion. For the return on
capital employed (ROCE), we endeavor to achieve a figure of around 10% in 2028. In the 2024 business
year, EBITDA before special items was €7.9 billion, free cash flow was €0.7 billion and ROCE was 5.1%.
In the medium term, we want to keep the overall distribution to shareholders at least at prior-year levels
through a combination of dividends and share buybacks and will pay out a minimum of €12 billion to our
shareholders between 2025 and 2028. Specifically, we want to pay out a dividend of at least €2.25 per
share or around €2 billion per year. This policy already applies to the dividend for the 2024 business year,
which will be paid out in 2025. The dividend proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting for 2024 is
consequently €2.25 per share (for more information on financial indicators, see page 46 onward).
We have also set ourselves comprehensive targets in the area of sustainability. By 2030, we want to
reduce our CO emissions from production (Scope 1) and energy purchases (Scope 2)2 by 25%
2
compared with 2018 (2018: 21.9 million metric tons, 2030 target: 16.4 million metric tons). In the 2024
business year, this figure was 17.0 million metric tons of CO equivalents (2023: 17.0 million metric
2
tons3). [By 2030, we want to reduce the specific CO
2
emissions from the purchase of our raw materials
(Scope 3.1)4 by 15% compared with 2022 (2022: 1.64 kilograms of CO per kilogram of raw materials
2
purchased, 2030 target: 1.39 kilograms). Our specific Scope 3.1 emissions in 2024 amounted to
1.58 kilograms of CO per kilogram of raw materials purchased (2023: 1.67 kilograms5). By 2050, we
2
endeavor to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3.1) (for more information on this
topic, see page 178 onward).
We are working to further increase sustainability in our supply chains. Our previous target was to have
80% of suppliers improve their sustainability performance upon reevaluation. Moving forward, we are
concentrating on suppliers that generated inadequate results in evaluations. For the time frame up to
2030, we are working toward ensuring that, annually, 80% of suppliers who underwent a sustainability
evaluation during the reporting period, and who had inadequate results in a prior comparable evaluation,
improve their sustainability performance. In 2024, the figure was 76%. With the new target, we want to
sharpen our focus on and gear our measures even more strongly toward suppliers with increased risk in
terms of sustainability (for more information, see page 301 onward).
1 Unlike the financial indicators specified as well as the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, the sustainability-related indicators listed in this chapter are not part of the statutory
audit but are part of a separate audit with limited assurance.
2 Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). The target includes greenhouse gas emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol that are
converted into CO2 equivalents (CO2e). The base year is 2018.
3 The figure for 2023 has been adjusted due to updated data.
4 Scope 3.1, raw materials excluding battery materials, services and technical goods, excluding greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business. Future adjustment of
the baseline in line with the “Together for Sustainability” guideline (TfS) possible depending on the availability of further primary data. The base year is 2022. In the reporting
year, we adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS guideline due to the availability of further primary data.
5 The figure for 2023 was adjusted due to increased data availability.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 31
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We intend to align our portfolio and the work of our research and development units even more closely
with climate protection and the circular economy. For this purpose, we rely on the assessment of our
product portfolio using the TripleS methodology (Sustainable Solution Steering). By 2030, we want to
achieve more than 50% of BASF sales relevant for TripleS6 from Sustainable-Future Solutions – products
that make a positive contribution to sustainability (see page 161). In 2024, these products accounted for
46.3% of BASF sales (2023: 41.4%). We also introduced a new target for circular economy solutions,
known as Loop Solutions, in 2024. By 2030, we want to achieve €10 billion in sales with these solutions.
Sales with Loop Solutions stood at €5.7 billion in 2024 (for more information on this topic, see page 246
onward).
We want to establish sustainable water management at all production sites in water stress areas7 and at
our Verbund sites by 2030. In 2024, we reached a share of 65% (2023: 57%)8 (for more information on
this topic, see page 227 onward).
In production, we want to further improve safety and focus on reducing high-severity work-related
accidents and process incidents. By 2030, we aim to achieve a rate of no more than 0.10 High Severity
Process Safety Incidents (hsPSI) per 200,000 working hours. The global rate of hsPSI in 2024 was 0.03
(2023: 0.05 hsPSI). For the period up to 2030, we are also committed to a maximum rate of 0.05 High
Severity Work Process Related Injuries (HSI) per 200,000 working hours. In the 2024 business year, this
figure stood at 0.02 HSI (2023: 0.03 HSI).]
Furthermore, we have set ourselves the target of increasing the proportion of women in leadership
positions to 30% by 2030.9 The global proportion of women in positions with disciplinary responsibility
was 29.3% in 2024 (2023: 28.4%). Furthermore, we would like to create a work environment in which
more than 80% of our employees feel that they can thrive and perform at their best at BASF. In 2024, we
reached a rate of 79% (2023: 79%) (for more information on this topic, see page 276 onward).
6 The definition of the relevant portfolio and further information can be found in the TripleS manual at basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering.
7 We define water stress areas as regions in which more than 40% of available water is used by industry, households and agriculture. Our definition is based on the Water Risk
Atlas (Aqueduct 4.0) published by the World Resources Institute. For more information, see wri.org/aqueduct. Our water target also continues to take into account the sites
that we identified as water stress sites in accordance with Pfister et al. (2009) prior to 2019, as well as water stress sites according to Aqueduct 3.0.
8 By including water stress sites according to Aqueduct 4.0, the number of sites required to implement sustainable water management increases. As a result, the
implementation status for 2023 has decreased and been adjusted accordingly.
9 In so doing, we act in accordance with applicable local laws.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 32
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Material Investments and Portfolio Measures
Portfolio management is an important part of our new strategy.
Investments remain a key driver of our targeted profitable growth as well
as our green transformation. Our focus is on high-growth markets. The
establishment of a new Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China, which we have
designed from the outset as a pilot project for sustainability, contributes to
achieving these aims.
The primary aim of our portfolio measures and investments is to empower the core businesses and
increase and more clearly emphasize the value of the standalone businesses. Investing in our plants is
essential to achieve the profitable growth we strive for in our core businesses. We invest in new
technologies in order to facilitate our own green transformation and that of our customers. At the same
time, we are taking measures to increase the efficiency of existing production processes and therefore to
improve the profitability and competitiveness of our operations. For the period from 2025 to 2028, we are
planning capital expenditures (capex)1 totaling around €16 billion, including approximately €3 billion for
the establishment of our Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China. Due to the investments in the Verbund site in
Zhanjiang, our capital expenditures peaked at around €6 billion in 2024. We anticipate a slight decrease
to around €5 billion for 2025. Starting in 2026, we are planning to reduce capital expenditures to well
below the level of depreciation and amortization (for more information on our future investments, see
page 85).
We drove forward our investment projects in 2024, focusing on the expansion of our position in our three
key and attractive regions: Asia Pacific, North America and Europe. The Asia Pacific region and China in
particular, which already has a significant influence on the growth of the global chemicals market with a
share of around 50%, will continue to remain especially attractive. We expect that around 80% of growth
in the chemical industry will be concentrated in this region by 2035. In order to participate in this and to
serve the increasing demand from various growth industries in this region, we are establishing, for
example, our new integrated Verbund site in Zhanjiang (see table on page 35). Our focus is on getting the
Verbund site operational as planned, with the cornerstones of the Verbund structure scheduled for
completion in 2025. This site will already be operated using 100% renewable electricity starting 2025. We
also continuously invest in the ongoing development of our other Asian sites, such as our expansion
project in Kuantan, Malaysia, in tandem with our partner PETRONAS Chemicals Group Berhad (see table
on page 35).
In North America, our focus is on the expansion of our production capacities in the isocyanates value
chain in Geismar, Louisiana (see table on page 35). The project is on schedule and is set for startup in
2026. Our production capacity for methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) in North America will thereby
rise from 380,000 metric tons per year to around 600,000 metric tons per year. The MDI expansion
represents BASF’s largest single investment in North America.
In addition, we invested in our European sites. In 2024, we put a world-scale production plant for alkyl
ethanolamines into operation at our Verbund site in Antwerp, Belgium, thus expanding our global
production capacities for this product and its derivatives by almost 30%. In Ludwigshafen, Germany, we
continued to drive forward our chlorine and aroma projects among other things (see table on page 35). In
Ludwigshafen, we also completed the world’s first electrically heated steam cracker demonstration plant
in 2024. In Schwarzheide, Germany, we put our prototype metal refinery for battery recycling into
operation.
1 Additions to property, plant and equipment excluding acquisitions, restoration obligations, IT investments and right-of-use assets arising from leases
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 33
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We want to expand and refine our portfolio through value-increasing acquisitions, especially in our core
businesses. We will expand our regional presence in growth markets in a targeted manner and support
our green transformation through sustainable business models.
Investments and acquisitions 2024
Million € Investments Acquisitions Total
Intangible assets 132 1 133
of which goodwill – – –
Property, plant and equipmenta 6,506 188 6,694
Total 6,638 189 6,826
a Including restoration obligations, IT investments and right-of-use assets arising from leases
Investments in the segments and regions
Investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to €6,506 million in 2024
(2023: €5,864 million). Capex accounted for €5,996 million of this amount (2023: €5,198 million). Our
investments in 2024 focused on the Chemicals, Materials and Nutrition & Care segments.
Additions to property, plant and equipmenta by segment in 2024
a Including restoration obligations, IT investments and right-of-use assets arising from leases
Additions to property, plant and equipmenta by region in 2024
a Including restoration obligations, IT investments and right-of-use assets arising from leases
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 34
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Overview of material investments
Segment Location Project Startup
Construction of a new world-scale alkyl ethanolamines
Antwerp, Belgium plant 2024
Kuantan, Malaysia Capacity expansion at the 2-ethylhexanoic acid planta 2024
Modernization of the chloroformates and acid
Ludwigshafen, Germany chlorides plant 2026
Chemicals Capacity expansion at the ethanolamines and
Nanjing, China ethylenamines plantsb 2024
Construction of a new steam cracker and plants for
ethylene oxide, syngas, monoethylene glycol,
polyethylene, C4 oxo alcohols, acrylic monomers and
Zhanjiang, China neopentyl glycol 2025–2026
Construction of a new world-scale production plant for
Materials Chalampé, France hexamethylenediamine (HMD) 2024
Geismar, Louisiana Capacity expansion at the MDI plants 2026
Heerenveen, Netherlands Capacity expansion at the resins production plant 2024
Capacity expansion at the acrylics dispersions
Huizhou, China production plant 2024
Industrial Solutions Nanjing, China Capacity expansion at the additives production plant 2025
Lampertheim, Germany and Capacity expansion for hindered amine light stabilizers
Pontecchio Marconi, Italy (HALS) 2025
Ludwigshafen, Germany Capacity expansion of polyisubutene plant 2025
Construction of a new production plant for alkyl
Bangpakong, Thailand polyglucosides 2025
Geismar, Louisiana Expansion of surfactant storage capacities 2024
Kundl, Austria Construction of a new production plant for enzymes 2024
Nutrition & Care Construction of new production plants for menthol and
Ludwigshafen, Germany linalool 2026
Construction of a new production plant for citral 2026
Zhanjiang, China Construction of a new production plant for nonionic
surfactants 2026
Construction of a new production plant for more
Münster, Germany sustainable automotive paints 2025
Construction of a new prototype plant for battery
Surface Technologies recycling 2024
Schwarzheide, Germany
Construction of a new battery recycling plant for the
production of black mass 2024
Würzburg, Germany Capacity expansion for automotive paints 2025
Beaumont, Texas and Hannibal,
Missouri Modernization of site infrastructure 2027
Traceability of crop protection products based on
Agricultural Solutions Europec digital identification 2025
Construction of a new fermentation facility for
Ludwigshafen, Germany sustainable crop protection products 2025
Schwarzheide, Germany Reduction of organic waste streams 2024
a Operated by a fully consolidated joint venture with PETRONAS Chemicals Group Berhad
b Operated by a joint venture with Sinopec
c This project will be implemented in Genay and Graveline, France, in Ludwigshafen, Germany, and in Tarragona, Spain.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 35
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Acquisitions
In April 2024, Vattenfall and BASF contractually agreed on the purchase of 49% of shares in Vattenfall’s
Nordlicht 1 and 2 wind farm projects by BASF (for more information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 344 onward). The Nordlicht wind farm projects are being built in the
German North Sea without government subsidies and will have a total installed capacity of 1.6 gigawatts.
BASF will use just under half of the electricity generated to supply its chemical production sites in
Europe, particularly Ludwigshafen, Germany. Subject to the final investment decision, which is expected
in the course of 2025, construction of Nordlicht 1 and 2 is scheduled to begin in 2026. The wind farms
are scheduled to become fully operational in 2028.
Divestitures
Following agreement on the sale of Wintershall Dea’s exploration and production (E&P) business,
excluding Russia-related activities, to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom, in December 2023,
this transaction was concluded on September 3, 2024. The E&P business consists of production and
development assets, as well as exploration rights and Wintershall Dea’s carbon storage licenses. In
exchange, Wintershall Dea shareholders – BASF (72.7%) and LetterOne (27.3%) – received a cash
consideration totaling $1.78 billion (BASF share: $1.29 billion), including a purchase price adjustment,
and new shares issued by Harbour Energy equating to a total shareholding of 54.5% in the enlarged
Harbour Energy company (BASF share: 39.6%).
Since completion of the transaction, both the shareholding in Wintershall Dea, which now only comprises
the operations not transferred to Harbour Energy and the headquarters, and the shareholding in Harbour
Energy have been accounted for as non-integral shareholdings using the equity method in the
Consolidated Financial Statements of the BASF Group (for more information, see Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements from page 344 onward).
Agreed transactions
On December 21, 2024, BASF and Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC), Rotterdam, Netherlands, signed an
agreement on the sale of BASF’s operations in food and health performance ingredients, including the
production site in Illertissen, Germany, to LDC. Under the terms of the agreement, it is expected that
approximately 300 employees will transfer from BASF to LDC on completion of the transaction, which
remains subject to the customary closing conditions, including approval by the relevant regulatory
bodies.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 36
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Innovation
Innovations based on chemistry play a pivotal role in overcoming the
greatest challenges of our time. Our activities are aimed at developing
new products, entering new markets, further increasing our productivity
and reducing the carbon footprint of our existing products. We are
intensively working together with our customers on innovative products
and processes for a sustainable future.
Innovation has always been the key to BASF’s success. The knowledge and skills of our highly qualified
employees are our most valuable resources and the source of our innovative strength. In 2024,
approximately 10,000 employees worldwide were working in research and development (R&D).
〈In 2024, we generated sales of around €11 billion with products launched on the market in the past five
years that stemmed from research and development activities.〉 In the long term, we aim to further
increase sales and earnings with new and improved products – especially with products that make a
positive sustainability contribution in the value chain.
Our research and development (R&D) expenses amounted to €2,061 million in 2024 (2023:
€2,130 million). R&D activities in our operating divisions, which are mainly application- and customer-
related, accounted for 87% of this figure. Cross-divisional and strategic topics were responsible for 13%
of these expenses.
Our innovation focus is on developing new products, solutions and product improvements that offer our
customers competitive and sustainability advantages. By helping them reduce their carbon footprint, use
resources more efficiently and manufacture products in a more environmentally friendly way and recycle
them, we ensure our long-term competitiveness and, at the same time, play a role in decoupling growth
from the consumption of limited resources.
In the area of electromobility, for example, we develop materials for batteries and electric powertrains in
close cooperation with vehicle manufacturers to enable safe and efficient driving. We are working on
innovative depolymerization processes that can be used in the recycling of foam mattresses or the rigid
foam found in fridges as well as on circular solutions for textiles. We also develop biodegradable
polymers for household and personal care applications as well as biodegradable UV absorbers for
sunscreen, and thus help our customers achieve their sustainability targets.
Our research and development units explicitly address the industry-specific needs of our customers.
Customer-focused activities are directly integrated into the operating divisions. Research activities that
are relevant to several operating divisions are bundled in the cross-functional global division Group
Research. It supports the R&D activities of our operating divisions and drives forward cross-divisional
projects on topics relevant to the entire Group, such as avoiding CO emissions in chemical processes
2
and products, energy efficiency and recycling technologies. The unit is globally positioned with research
centers in Asia Pacific, Europe and North America. Together with the research and development units in
our operating divisions, Group Research forms the core of our global research network.
We use corporate funding to finance research activities that are of broad relevance to the BASF Group
and go beyond the industry-specific focus of the individual operating divisions, such as digital tools, new
analytic methods, catalytical processes and biotechnological methods.
The number and quality of our patents also demonstrate our innovative power and long-term
competitiveness. In 2024, we filed 1,159 new patents worldwide, of which 44.5% were for innovations
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 37
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
with a particular focus on sustainability. The Patent Asset Index, a method that compares patent
portfolios, once again ranked us among the leading companies in the chemical industry in 2024.
Global presence
Our global research and development presence – and its effectiveness – is vital to our long-term
success. This enables us to respond to the needs and requirements of the regional markets in a
differentiated way, establish new customer relationships and leverage growth potential. Scientific
collaborations give us access to talent, strengthen our Research and Development Verbund and make
BASF an even more attractive partner and employer.
The largest site in our research network is Ludwigshafen in Germany. A new Catalyst Development and
Solids Processing Center was opened there in December 2024 to bring process innovations and new
chemical catalysts to market faster.
Innovation Campus Shanghai in China is our largest research and development site in Asia Pacific.
Here, we work on new products and processes for a variety of customer industries, including in growing
sectors such as electromobility and renewable energies. Innovation Campus Mumbai in India, with its
research focus areas of crop protection, process development, specialty chemicals and analytics,
represents a further key pillar of our growing research network in the Asia Pacific region.
At our largest research and development site in North America, Research Triangle Park, we work on
new crop protection products. 2024 also marked the one-year anniversary of the Biodegradation and
Microplastics Center of Excellence in Wyandotte, United States. Here, our teams research the
biodegradability of materials and solutions for the circular economy.
Our global network of top universities, research institutes and companies forms a further part of our
Know-How Verbund. It gives us direct access to external scientific expertise, talented minds from various
disciplines as well as new technologies. Our eight academic research alliances bundle partnerships with
several research groups in a region or with a specific research focus. The teams in the research alliances
work, for example, on projects in the areas of materials science and biosciences, catalysis research and
digitalization. In the Asia Pacific region, the Network for Asian Open Research (NAO) provides a joint
platform for cooperation with leading universities and institutes. In Europe, we have close ties with the
world of academia through our Academic Research Alliances, such as the Battery and Electrochemistry
Laboratory (BELLA), the Catalysis Research Laboratory (CaRLa), the UniCat BASF Joint Lab (BasCat),
the Joint Research Network on Advanced Materials and Systems (JONAS) and the British Alliance for
Research & Innovation (BARI). The California Research Alliance (CARA) and the North America Open
Research Alliance (NORA) operate in the United States.
〈The Academic Research Alliances are complemented by cooperative partnerships with around 260
universities and research institutes as well as collaborations with a large number of companies.〉
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 38
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The BASF Group’s Business Year
Economic Environment1
Global economic growth in 2024 was again driven more by services than
the production of goods. Declining inflation and the interest rate
turnaround initiated by many central banks supported demand. Starting
from a low base, the global chemical industry grew at a faster pace than
the overall industrial production. However, growth in the chemical industry
weakened over the course of the year, particularly in Europe (for the
forecast, see page 78 onward).
At a glance
+2.7% +3.9%
Global GDP growth Increase in global chemical production
Global gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 2.7% compared with the previous year (2023: +2.8%).
Global industrial production only rose by 2.1% (2023: +1.5%). Starting from a low base after two weak
years, global chemical production grew by 3.9%, albeit with significant regional differences. While the
chemical industry increased by 6.8% in China, it only grew by 1.1% in the rest of the world.
The average price of Brent crude oil remained around the prior-year level at $81 per barrel (previous year:
$82 per barrel). The annual average gas price in northwestern Europe was €34.17 per MWh or $10.83 per
mmBtu (previous year: €40.52 per MWh or $12.83 per mmBtu), almost five times higher than in the
United States (€6.93 per MWh or $2.20 per mmBtu).
1 All information relating to past years in this section can deviate from the previous year’s report due to statistic revisions. Where available, calendar-adjusted macroeconomic
growth rates are reported. Figures for 2024 not yet available in full are estimated.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 39
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Trends in the global economy in 2024
At 0.9%, GDP growth in the European Union (EU) was only slightly above the previous year’s very weak
level. Industrial production contracted for the second consecutive year.
Within the EU, there were significant differences in growth between member states. Spain’s GDP grew
by around 3%, primarily due to its higher share of tourism and services. On the other hand, France and
Italy saw only marginal economic expansion mainly due to persistently weak private consumption.
The German economy stagnated again in 2024 due to slow private consumption despite rising incomes
and a decline in capital investment. In view of the weakness in Germany’s core industries, foreign trade
did not provide positive momentum. Overall, the German economy has not grown in real terms since
2019, while GDP in the rest of the eurozone increased by 6% in this period.
At nearly 2%, growth in the eastern EU countries was also above the EU average. However, there were
also considerable differences within this region. Poland’s economy showed relatively strong growth of
almost 3% due to the provision of previously frozen EU funds and rising real incomes. In Hungary and
Czechia, GDP growth rates did not differ significantly from the low EU average as their industrial sectors
heavily rely on western Europe.
In the United Kingdom, GDP growth remained weak, reflecting the only slight increase in consumer
spending and volatile contributions from investment and foreign trade.
In contrast to Europe, the United States recorded continued robust GDP growth of 2.8%. Private
consumption continued to rise due to strong labor market demand and higher real wages, although
service consumption still accounted for more than two-thirds of this growth. Capital expenditures also
contributed to the solid growth, while the increase in the foreign trade deficit dampened expansion. The
contribution from commercial construction investment in 2024 was considerably lower than in the prior-
year period. The industrial economy in the United States remained weak, with the manufacturing sector
in particular stagnating over the year as a whole.
In China, the GDP growth rate reached the official target of 5%. Even though private consumption rose
at a similar rate, domestic demand for goods only grew at a subdued pace. In contrast, the export of
goods provided considerable growth momentum for the industry. In this environment, industrial
production in China rose by around 5%. While the manufacturing sector with an expansion of around 6%
slightly outpaced the industry as a whole, the ongoing crisis in residential construction had a dampening
effect on the overall industrial growth rate.
India was the fastest-growing major economy in 2024 with growth of more than 6%. This was supported
by the robust increase in private consumption and rise in investments. In the ASEAN countries, which
benefited from the diversification of international industrial value chains, GDP also grew relatively strongly
at just under 5%. This was especially the case in Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam, all of which
achieved growth of around 5% or higher. Growth in mature Asian markets lagged behind emerging
markets in the region. In South Korea, economic growth was around 2%. In Japan, GDP stagnated,
partly due to the lack of growth in private consumer demand and investments, and the sharp decline in
automotive production.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 40
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Brazil, South America’s largest economy, recorded solid growth of almost 3.3%. Both private consumer
demand and investments saw a significant increase – by more than 5% and more than 7% respectively.
Industrial production outpaced GDP slightly, while the agricultural sector suffered as a result of the floods
in southern Brazil. Despite the improved economic outlook following recent reforms, Argentina’s GDP
contracted by around 3% in 2024. Overall, GDP in South America increased by 2.0%, slightly more than
in the previous year.
Gross domestic product
Real change compared with previous year 2024 2023
World 2.7 % 2.8 %
European Union 0.9 % 0.5 %
USA 2.8 % 2.9 %
China 5.0 % 5.2 %
Emerging markets of Asia excluding Chinaa 5.2 % 5.2 %
Japan 0.1 % 1.5 %
South America 2.0 % 1.6 %
a We define the emerging markets of Asia as the ASEAN countries (Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam),
India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 41
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Trends in key customer industries
In 2024, global goods production grew more strongly than in the previous year. However, it lagged
behind the growth rates of GDP and the services sector. Industry growth was dampened in particular by
a decline in automotive production, following the previous year’s strong growth, and a weak momentum
in the construction industry, amid falling but still high interest rates in the United States and Europe, as
well as the crisis in the Chinese housing market. In contrast, the production of consumer goods in the
nutrition, care and health sectors supported industrial growth.
Global industrial production expanded by 2.1% overall (2023: 1.5%). In the advanced economies, it
largely stagnated, while in the emerging markets it grew by 3.9% (2023: +2.9%). In the EU, industrial
production declined by 1.9%; in North America, it rose by 1.1%, and in Asia it grew by 4.2% overall.
China accounted for around three-quarters of global industrial growth. North America accounted for only
around one-tenth of global growth, while the EU made a negative contribution.
Growth in key customer industries
Real change compared with previous year 2024 2023
Industry total 2.1% 1.5%
Transportation -0.3% 9.6%
of which automotive industry -1.1% 9.9%
Energy and resources 2.1% 0.9%
Construction 1.4% 2.3%
Consumer goods 1.5% -0.3%
Electronics 7.6% 0.2%
Health and nutrition 2.4% 0.4%
Agriculture 2.2% 3.0%
In 2024, global automotive production decreased by 1.1% from 90.5 to 89.5 million passenger cars and
light commercial vehicles. In China, the world’s largest automotive market, it increased by 3.7%. In
contrast, production in the EU, North America, Japan and South Korea decreased by around 4.4%
overall. However, production in these countries had increased by around 12% in 2023, slightly outpacing
China’s growth of 10%. Automotive production in India also increased by around 4%. Growth in the
production of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) was once again significantly higher than that of the market
as a whole: A total of 1.0 million more BEVs were produced; this corresponds to growth in this segment
of around 9.5% compared with the previous year. Consequently, electric vehicles’ share of all vehicles
produced rose from around 12% in 2023 to around 13% in 2024.
The energy and raw materials sector expanded by 2.1%. Growth in this sector was mainly driven by
the production of non-energy raw materials, the refining business and energy supply. However, oil and
gas production remained largely stagnant.
Demand in the construction industry remained subdued, despite the interest rate reversal initiated by
central banks in Europe and the United States in 2024, already reflected in falling longer-term rates.
Overall, construction activity expanded by 1.4%. Development varied across the individual construction
segments: Residential construction declined slightly, while commercial building construction saw a
modest uptick. As in previous years, the infrastructure segment saw considerable growth. The EU
construction industry saw a considerable overall decline, most notably with a sharp downturn in new
residential construction. Conversely, construction activity in North America recorded solid growth across
all segments. This was partly due to base effects in the U.S. residential construction sector given the
decline in construction activity of nearly 10% in the previous year and extremely limited supply of existing
properties on the market. In China, building construction activity, measured by area under construction,
continued to decline considerably.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 42
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
After stagnating in the previous year, consumer goods production increased by 1.5% in 2024, lagging
behind global GDP growth. Production in the furniture industry remained stable after experiencing a
sharp decline in the previous year. The textile industry returned to moderate growth after a decrease in
the previous year. Production of chemicals for the manufacture of care products grew slightly faster than
global GDP.
The electronics industry saw considerable expansion of 7.6% again after stagnating in the prior-year
period. Key drivers of growth were electronic components (semiconductors), computers and the again
increasing demand for replacements in consumer electronics.
Production in the health and nutrition sector increased by 2.4%. The pharmaceutical industry grew at a
similar rate to global GDP. All major markets generated growth again following a weak previous year.
Food production as a whole grew at a slower pace. It increased in the EU and emerging Asian markets,
while declining in the United States and Japan.
At 2.2%, growth in the agricultural sector was below the level of the previous year. Production in the EU
largely stagnated. South America built on its solid above-average growth from the previous year, driven
primarily by catch-up effects in Argentina. Brazilian agricultural production, on the other hand, decreased
considerably. In North America, growth remained at the low level of the previous year. The growth rate of
agricultural production in Asia was slightly higher than the global average.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 43
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Trends in the chemical industry
Despite significant regional differences, growth in the global chemical industry in 2024 (+3.9%)
considerably outpaced overall industrial production. While the chemical industry in China grew by around
6.8%a on the basis of official figures, it increased by 1.1% in the rest of the world. In 2024, China
accounted for 86% of global chemical growth.
Starting from the very low prior-year level, chemical production in the EU rose considerably in the first
half of 2024. This was partly due to supply bottlenecks on international trade routes through the Red Sea
and production constraints at non-European producers. Over the course of the year, however, weak
European demand resulted in a considerable decline in production. For the year as a whole, production
in the EU only grew by around 1.6%. Chemical production in Germany followed a similar trend.
However, the annual growth rate was higher due to the lower starting base at the end of 2023 (2024:
+3.1%, 2023: -12.1%).
In the United Kingdom, chemical production decreased by 1.7% (2023: -12.7%).
In the United States, the chemical industry stagnated for the second consecutive year amid overall weak
industrial demand (2024: 0.0%, 2023: -0.2%).
Chemical production in Asia rose by 5.6%, slightly more than in the previous year (+4.5%). China, the
world’s largest chemical market, grew by 6.8%.a India increased production by 1.8% after stagnating in
the previous year. Nearly all other countries in the region also reported growth in the chemical industry.
Only Japan experienced a decline of 2.9%.
Chemical production in the Middle East also increased by a total of 2.5%. In Iran and in Saudi Arabia,
the region’s leading producers, chemical production increased slightly more than the regional average. In
contrast, Israel saw a decline in production.
Chemical production (excluding pharmaceuticals)
Real change compared with previous year 2024 2023
World 3.9 % 1.4 %
European Union 1.6 % -8.2 %
USA 0.0 % -0.2 %
Chinaa 6.8 % 7.4 %
Emerging markets of Asia excluding China 2.4 % -2.5 %
Japan -2.9 % -6.6 %
South America 1.7 % -5.7 %
a Our own estimate of the growth rate, based on official statistics from China for the overall market and individual products.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 44
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Price trends for key commodities
Due to increasing oil supply, weak overall growth in oil demand and OPEC’s announcement to increase
production, Brent North Sea crude prices fell from an average of $84 per barrel in the first half of 2024 to
$74 per barrel in the fourth quarter. The annual average oil price was $81 per barrel, only slightly below
the price of the previous year ($82 per barrel). In contrast, the average monthly price for the chemical raw
material naphtha was $656 per metric ton, around 2% higher than the previous year ($643 per metric
ton).
Compared with the previous year, gas prices in northwestern Europe rose more sharply in 2024 due to
colder weather. However, the average annual price of €34.17 per MWh ($10.83 per mmBtu) was below
that of 2023 (€40.52 per MWh or $12.83 per mmBtu). The average price of gas in the United States was
$2.20 per mmBtu, likewise slightly lower than in the previous year ($2.54 per mmBtu.) In China, gas
prices averaged around $13.13 per mmBtu nationally (2023: $12.77 per mmBtu).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 45
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of Operations
In the 2024 business year, sales stood at €65,260 million, compared with €68,902 million in the previous
year. Considerable volume increases in some core businesses, coupled with slight volume growth in
Agricultural Solutions, overcompensated for the decrease in sales volumes in Surface Technologies,
which was due to the weak momentum in the automotive industry. The overall decline in sales, however,
was mainly due to competition-driven price decreases in all segments. A particularly pronounced decline
was seen in precious metal prices in the Surface Technologies segment. Currency effects further
dampened sales performance.
Sequential development of sales
Billion €
2024 65.3
2023 68.9
2022 87.3
2021 78.6
2020 59.1
Factors influencing BASF Group sales
Change in million € Change in %
Volumes 1,216 1.8
Prices -3,564 -5.2
Currencies -1,206 -1.8
Acquisitions – –
Divestitures -86 -0.1
Changes in the scope of consolidation -3 0.0
Total change in sales -3,643 -5.3
Compared with the prior-year figure, EBITDA before special items1 rose by €187 million to
€7,858 million. This was due to higher earnings in our core businesses. In the Nutrition & Care, Industrial
Solutions and Chemicals segments, EBITDA before special items grew considerably – mainly owing to a
volume-related increase in the contribution margin – while it grew slightly in the Materials segment. This
was offset by earnings declines in our standalone businesses. In Agricultural Solutions, EBITDA before
special items declined considerably, mainly as a result of developments in the glufosinate-ammonium
business and higher fixed costs, partly due to an insurance payment received in the previous year. The
steep drop in precious metal prices and lower sales volumes in the Catalysts division played a
substantial role in the slight earnings decline in Surface Technologies. The decrease in EBITDA before
special items in Other was caused by currency results, hedging and other valuation effects contained in
other expenses as well as lower earnings contributions from other businesses. The EBITDA margin
before special items reached 12.0%, compared with 11.1% in the previous year.
1 For an explanation of this indicator, see the reconciliation tables in Results of Operations on page 49.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 46
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Sequential development of EBITDA before special items
Billion €
2024 7.9
2023 7.7
2022 10.8
2021 11.3
2020 7.4
EBITDA2 amounted to €6,681 million, compared with €7,180 million in the prior-year period.
Special items3 in EBITDA amounted to -€1,176 million in 2024. Special charges for restructuring
measures in the amount of €667 million arose, in particular, for provisions in connection with the shutting
down of glufosinate-ammonium production plants and the associated site closures in the Agricultural
Solutions division, as well as for the conversion of the ERP system in the Coatings division for a
differentiated steering of the business. In addition, special charges were incurred in connection with the
cost savings program focusing on Europe and for modifications to the production structure at the
Verbund site in Ludwigshafen, Germany. Special charges from other charges and income in the amount
of €500 million included, in particular, charges in the amount of €301 million for the class settlement,
which does not constitute any admission of liability, in connection with the aqueous film-forming foam
(AFFF) multidistrict litigation in the United States.
Special items
Million € 2024 2023
Restructuring measures -667 -379
Integration costs 2 -17
Divestitures -11 -58
Other charges and income -500 -36
Total special items in EBITDA -1,176 -490
Impairments and reversals of impairments in special items -702 -1,076
Total special items in EBIT -1,878 -1,566
EBIT came in at €2,033 million, down on the prior-year figure by €206 million (for more information, see
the Statement of Income on page 329). Depreciation and amortization4 stood at €4,648 million (previous
year: €4,941 million). This included impairments in the amount of €776 million (of which €702 million was
attributable to special items), which mainly related to the battery materials business in the Surface
Technologies segment. In the previous year, EBIT included impairments totaling around €1.1 billion.
We use the return on capital employed (ROCE) indicator to measure our rate of return. In 2024, ROCE
was 5.1% (2023: 4.5%; for more information, see page 28 onward).
2 For an explanation of this indicator, see the reconciliation tables in Results of Operations on page 49.
3 Special items may arise from the integration of acquired businesses, restructuring measures, gains or losses resulting from divestitures and sales of shareholdings, and other
expenses and income that arise outside of ordinary business activities.
4 Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 47
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
ROCE
Million € 2024 2023
EBIT BASF Group 2,033 2,240
– EBIT Other -1,340 -778
EBIT of the segments 3,373 3,018
Cost of capital basis of segments, average of month-end figures 65,527 66,687
ROCE % 5.1 4.5
Capital employed
Million € 2024 2023
Intangible assets 11,920 12,733
+ Property, plant and equipment 24,427 22,425
+ Integral companies accounted for using the equity method 1,614 1,753
+ Inventories 13,846 14,961
+ Accounts receivable, trade 11,305 11,989
+ Current and noncurrent other receivables and other assetsa 2,403 2,827
+ Assets of disposal groups 13 –
Cost of capital basis of segments, average of month-end figures 65,527 66,687
+ Deviation from cost of capital basis at closing rates as of December 31 -721 -3,959
+ Assets not included in cost of capital basis 15,609 14,667
Assets of the BASF Group as of December 31 80,415 77,395
a Including customer/supplier financing and other adjustments
Net income from shareholdings, financial result and income after taxes
The year-on-year increase in net income from shareholdings of €798 million to €598 million was mainly
due to the improved earnings of non-integral companies accounted for using the equity method. This
was primarily attributable to special income of €390 million in connection with the transfer of Wintershall
Dea’s assets to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom. In the previous year, special items of
-€164 million were incurred at Wintershall Dea.
The financial result improved by €57 million compared with the previous year. This primarily resulted
from higher income from the capitalization of construction period interest in the other financial result. By
contrast, the interest result was down by €20 million on the prior-year figure, mainly due to increased
financial indebtedness and higher interest expenses for hedges.
Overall, income before income taxes rose by €649 million compared with the previous year to
€2,069 million in 2024. Income tax expenses came in at €616 million (previous year: €1,041 million). The
tax rate for 2024 stood at 29.8% and was particularly influenced by the nonrecognition of deferred tax
assets on loss carryforwards. This effect had been stronger in the previous year, leading to a tax rate of
73.3%.
Income after taxes rose by €1,074 million compared with the previous year to €1,453 million.
Noncontrolling interests were almost at prior-year level at €155 million. This led to net income of
€1,298 million.
Earnings per share for 2024 amounted to €1.45 (previous year: €0.25).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 48
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Further indicators of results of operations
We also use alternative performance measures (APMs) to steer the BASF Group. Investors, analysts and
rating agencies use them to assess our performance. These are not defined in IFRS®. As such, the
methods of calculation may differ from those used by other companies. Alternative performance
measures for the results of operations are EBIT, EBITDA, the EBITDA margin before special items and
adjusted earnings per share. Other APMs are net debt (for more information, see page 54 onward) and
capital expenditures (see also from page 33 onward).
At the start of the 2024 business year, we introduced EBITDA before special items and free cash flow as
new most important key performance indicators for the short- and medium-term steering of the
BASF Group. For a detailed explanation of how these indicators are calculated, see Our Steering
Concept from page 28 onward of this report.
EBITDA before special items
Million € 2024 2023
EBIT 2,033 2,240
– Special items -1,878 -1,566
EBIT before special items 3,911 3,806
+ Depreciation and amortization 3,872 3,798
+ Impairments and reversals of impairments on property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets before special items 74 67
Depreciation, amortization, impairments and reversals of impairments on property,
plant and equipment and intangible assets before special items 3,946 3,865
EBITDA before special items 7,858 7,671
Sales 65,260 68,902
EBITDA margin before special items % 12.0 11.1
EBITDA
Million € 2024 2023
EBIT 2,033 2,240
+ Depreciation and amortization 3,872 3,798
+ Impairments and reversals of impairments on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 776 1,143
Depreciation, amortization, impairments and reversals of impairments on property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets 4,648 4,941
EBITDA 6,681 7,180
Compared with earnings per share, the adjusted earnings per share are firstly adjusted for special items.
Amortization, impairments and reversals of impairments on intangible assets are then eliminated.
Amortization of intangible assets primarily results from the purchase price allocation following
acquisitions and is therefore of a temporary nature. The effects of these adjustments on income taxes
and on noncontrolling interests are also considered. This makes adjusted earnings per share a suitable
measure for making comparisons over time and predicting future profitability.
In 2024, adjusted earnings per share amounted to €3.51, compared with €2.78 in the previous year.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 49
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Adjusted earnings per share
Million € 2024 2023
Income after taxes 1,453 379
− Special itemsa -1,492 -1,811
+ Amortization, impairments and reversals of impairments on intangible assets 670 879
– Amortization, impairments and reversals of impairments on intangible assets
contained in special items 77 257
− Adjustments to income taxes 223 171
Adjusted income after taxes 3,315 2,640
− Adjusted noncontrolling interests 183 156
Adjusted net income 3,132 2,484
Weighted average number of outstanding sharesb in thousands 892,522 892,641
Adjusted earnings per share € 3.51 2.78
a Includes special items in net income from shareholdings and in the financial result of €386 million in the 2024 business year and -€245 million for 2023.
b Due to the share buyback program terminated in February 2023, the weighted average number of outstanding shares in the 2024 business year was 892,522,164 and
892,640,562 in the 2023 business year.
Sales and earnings
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales 65,260 68,902 -5.3 %
EBITDA before special items 7,858 7,671 2.4 %
Special items in EBITDA -1,176 -490 -139.9 %
EBITDA 6,681 7,180 -7.0 %
EBITDA margin before special items % 12.0 11.1 –
Depreciation and amortizationa 4,648 4,941 -5.9 %
EBIT before special items 3,911 3,806 2.8 %
Special items in EBIT -1,878 -1,566 -19.9 %
EBIT 2,033 2,240 -9.2 %
Income before income taxes 2,069 1,420 45.7 %
Income after taxes 1,453 379 283.3 %
Net income 1,298 225 475.8 %
Earnings per share € 1.45 0.25 475.9 %
Adjusted earnings per share € 3.51 2.78 26.1 %
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 50
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Sales and earnings by quarter 2024a
Million € Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year
Sales 17,553 16,111 15,739 15,856 65,260
EBITDA before special items 2,712 1,957 1,622 1,567 7,858
Special items in EBITDA -57 -394 -345 -380 -1,176
EBITDA 2,655 1,563 1,277 1,187 6,681
EBITDA margin before special items % 15.4 12.1 10.3 9.9 12.0
Depreciation and amortizationb 965 1,047 1,027 1,609 4,648
EBIT before special items 1,754 969 635 554 3,911
Special items in EBIT -64 -453 -385 -976 -1,878
EBIT 1,689 516 250 -422 2,033
Income before income taxes 1,772 398 570 -671 2,069
Income after taxes 1,411 470 343 -770 1,453
Net income 1,368 430 287 -786 1,298
Earnings per share € 1.53 0.48 0.32 -0.88 1.45
Adjusted earnings per share € 1.68 0.93 0.32 0.59 3.51
Sales and earnings by quarter 2023a
Million € Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year
Sales 19,991 17,305 15,735 15,871 68,902
EBITDA before special items 2,864 1,944 1,545 1,317 7,671
Special items in EBITDA -54 -37 -182 -217 -490
EBITDA 2,811 1,908 1,363 1,099 7,180
EBITDA margin before special items % 14.3 11.2 9.8 8.3 11.1
Depreciation and amortizationb 944 934 969 2,094 4,941
EBIT before special items 1,931 1,007 575 292 3,806
Special items in EBIT -65 -33 -181 -1,287 -1,566
EBIT 1,867 974 394 -995 2,240
Income before income taxes 1,930 851 -38 -1,323 1,420
Income after taxes 1,604 555 -209 -1,571 379
Net income 1,562 499 -249 -1,587 225
Earnings per share € 1.75 0.56 -0.28 -1.78 0.25
Adjusted earnings per share € 1.93 0.72 0.32 -0.18 2.78
a Quarterly results not audited
b Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 51
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Net Assets
Assets
December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023
Million € % Million € %
Intangible assets 11,983 14.9 12,216 15.8
Property, plant and equipment 27,197 33.8 24,080 31.1
Integral investments accounted for using the equity method 2,399 3.0 2,054 2.7
Non-integral investments accounted for using the equity method 3,411 4.2 4,518 5.8
Other financial assets 1,165 1.4 1,099 1.4
Deferred tax assets 574 0.7 617 0.8
Receivables for income taxesa 88 0.1 80 0.1
Other receivables and miscellaneous assetsa 2,366 2.9 1,258 1.6
Noncurrent assets 49,183 61.2 45,923 59.3
Inventories 13,681 17.0 13,876 17.9
Accounts receivable, trade 10,393 12.9 10,414 13.5
Receivables for income taxesa 740 0.9 717 0.9
Other receivables and miscellaneous assetsa 3,256 4.0 3,787 4.9
Marketable securities 67 0.1 53 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents 2,914 3.6 2,624 3.4
Assets of disposal groups 181 0.2 – –
Current assets 31,232 38.8 31,472 40.7
Total assets 80,415 100.0 77,395 100.0
a Since the 2024 business year, receivables for income taxes, which were previously included in other receivables and miscellaneous assets, have been reported separately.
The prior-year figures have been adjusted.
Total assets amounted to €80,415 million as of December 31, 2024, around €3 billion above the prior-
year figure.
Noncurrent assets increased by €3,260 million compared with December 31, 2023. The slight decrease
of intangible assets amounted to €233 million and was mainly attributable to amortization of €670 million,
including impairments of €87 million. Alongside additions of €133 million, currency effects (€341 million)
in particular had an offsetting effect.
The increase of €3,118 million in property, plant and equipment was mainly due to additions of
€6,694 million, particularly in connection with the construction of our Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China.
Currency effects in the amount of €537 million also contributed to the rise in property, plant and
equipment. Depreciation amounted to €3,978 million and included impairments and reversals of
impairments totaling €689 million, which mainly related to the battery materials business in the Surface
Technologies segment.
Compared with the prior year-end, the carrying amounts of integral investments accounted for using the
equity method increased by €344 million to €2,399 million, mainly due to the addition of the shareholding
in the Nordlicht 1 and 2 wind farm projects. The carrying amounts of non-integral shareholdings
accounted for using the equity method as of December 31, 2024, were €1,107 million below the prior
year-end figure. This was mainly attributable to the decline in the carrying amount of Wintershall Dea,
which resulted from the transfer of assets to Harbour Energy, a capital decrease and a dividend
payment. This was only partially offset by the addition of the equity-accounted shareholding in Harbour
Energy.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 52
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Noncurrent other receivables and miscellaneous assets rose by €1,107 million to €2,366 million, which
was mainly attributable to a rise in defined benefit assets. Derivatives with positive market values had a
slightly offsetting effect.
Current assets amounted to €31,232 million as of December 31, 2024, €240 million below the prior-year
figure. The decline in inventories of €195 million mainly resulted from the Agricultural Solutions segment,
whereas all other segments recorded a slight increase in inventories. Trade accounts receivable
remained at the prior-year level. Current other receivables and miscellaneous assets amounted to
€3,256 million, €531 million below the prior-year figure, which was mainly attributable to lower precious
metal trading items and lower tax refund claims.
Cash and cash equivalents rose by €289 million to €2,914 million.
Assets of disposal groups amounted to €181 million as of December 31, 2024, and mainly included the
assets from the agreed sale of BASF’s Food and Health Performance Ingredients business.
For more information on the composition of individual asset items and their development, see the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements from page 336 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 53
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Financial Position
Equity and liabilities
December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023
Million € % Million € %
Subscribed capital 1,142 1.4 1,142 1.5
Capital reserves 3,139 3.9 3,139 4.1
Retained earnings 30,883 38.4 32,517 42.0
Other comprehensive income 435 0.5 -1,521 -2.0
Noncontrolling interests 1,284 1.6 1,368 1.8
Equity 36,884 45.9 36,646 47.3
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 2,403 3.0 2,896 3.7
Deferred tax liabilities 1,005 1.2 1,140 1.5
Income tax provisions 335 0.4 335 0.4
Other provisions 1,883 2.3 1,684 2.2
Financial indebtedness 19,122 23.8 17,085 22.1
Other liabilities 1,744 2.2 1,739 2.3
Noncurrent liabilities 26,492 32.9 24,879 32.2
Accounts payable, trade 6,923 8.6 6,741 8.7
Provisions 3,320 4.1 3,214 4.2
Liabilities for income taxesa 404 0.5 442 0.6
Financial indebtedness 2,639 3.3 2,182 2.8
Other liabilitiesa 3,714 4.6 3,291 4.3
Liabilities of disposal groups 39 0.0 – –
Current liabilities 17,039 21.2 15,871 20.5
Total equity and liabilities 80,415 100.0 77,395 100.0
a In the previous year, liabilities for income taxes were reported together with liabilities for other taxes. As of the 2024 business year, these are recognized under other
liabilities. The prior-year figure has been consequently adjusted by the amount for other taxes (€359 million).
Equity stood at €36,884 million, on a level with December 31, 2023. Retained earnings declined by
€1,634 million compared with the end of the previous year. This resulted mainly from dividend payments
to the shareholders of BASF SE for 2023 in the amount of €3,035 million and from net income in the
amount of €1,298 million. Other comprehensive income rose by €1,956 million, in particular as a result of
actuarial gains and currency effects.
On account of the increase in total assets, the equity ratio stood at 45.9%, down on the prior-year figure
(47.3%).
Noncurrent liabilities increased by €1,614 million compared with the 2023 year-end, mainly due to the
€2,037 million rise in noncurrent financial indebtedness. This increase was primarily attributable to the
issue of new bonds with a carrying amount of around €1.7 billion, of which around €1.4 billion related to
private placements, and extending the utilization of the credit line in China for the construction of the
Verbund site in Zhanjiang by around €2 billion. This was offset by the reclassification of five bonds, with a
total carrying amount of around €1.7 billion, from noncurrent to current financial indebtedness.
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations decreased by €493 million compared with December 31,
2023, mainly due to slightly higher interest rates and income on plan assets.
Deferred tax liabilities declined by €135 million, whereas income tax provisions remained on a level with
the previous year.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 54
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The increase of €199 million in other provisions was mainly due to increased provisions for restoration
obligations and for contract liabilities, particularly in connection with the planned closure of the
glufosinate-ammonium production plants in Germany.
Current liabilities rose by €1,169 million compared with December 31, 2023, to €17,039 million. Trade
accounts payable were up by €181 million on the prior year-end figure. The €105 million increase in
current provisions was mainly due to higher provisions for emission rights.
At €404 million, income tax liabilities were down slightly on the prior-year level.
The aforementioned reclassification of bonds from noncurrent to current financial indebtedness was the
main cause of the €457 million increase in financial liabilities. This was offset by the scheduled
repayment of a bond with a carrying amount of €500 million as well as the €710 million decrease in
liabilities to banks, mainly due to the repayment of two loans.
Compared with the previous year, other liabilities rose by €424 million, in particular due to the liability
relating to the class settlement in connection with the AFFF multidistrict litigation in the United States.
Liabilities of disposal groups stood at €39 million.
Net debt amounted to €18,781 million on December 31, 2024, and was therefore around €2.2 billion
higher than the figure at the end of the previous year.
For more information on the composition and development of individual asset items, see the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements from page 336 onward.
Net debt
Million € December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023
Noncurrent financial indebtedness 19,122 17,085
+ Current financial indebtedness 2,639 2,182
Financial indebtedness 21,762 19,268
− Marketable securities 67 53
− Cash and cash equivalents 2,914 2,624
Net debt 18,781 16,590
Off-balance sheet obligations
Off-balance sheet obligations amounting to €29 billion (2023: €30 billion) mainly relate to long-term
purchase obligations for raw materials and long-term supply agreements for electricity from renewable
sources (for more information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements from page 412
onward). In addition, obligations exist in connection with initiated or planned investment projects
amounting to €7 billion (2023: €11 billion), primarily in connection with the construction of the new
Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China (for more information, see page 85).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 55
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Financing policy and credit ratings
Our financing policy aims to ensure our solvency at all times, limiting the risks associated with financing
and optimizing our cost of capital. We preferably meet our external financing needs on the international
capital markets.
BASF strives for a single A rating, which ensures unrestricted access to financial and capital markets.
Our financing measures are aligned with our operational business planning as well as the company’s
strategic direction and also ensure the financial flexibility to take advantage of strategic options.
Maturities of financial indebtedness
Million €
2025 2,639
2026 2,723
2027 2,662
2028 1,875
2029 982
2030 and beyond 10,880
BASF enjoys good credit ratings, especially compared with competitors in the chemical industry.
Standard & Poor’s maintained its rating of A–/A–2/outlook stable on December 2, 2024. Moody’s rating
of A3/P–2/outlook stable was most recently confirmed on November 18, 2024. Fitch confirmed its rating
of A/F1/outlook stable on November 1, 2024.
We have solid financing, both for ongoing business and for investment projects initiated or planned.
Corporate bonds form the basis of our medium to long-term debt financing. These are issued in euros
and other currencies with different maturities as part of our €20 billion debt issuance program. The goal
is to create a balanced maturity profile, diversify our financing and optimize our debt capital financing
conditions.
For short-term financing, we use BASF SE’s global commercial paper program, which has an issuing
volume of up to $12.5 billion. As of December 31, 2024, no commercial paper was outstanding under this
program. A firmly committed, syndicated credit line of €6 billion with a term until 2029 covers the
repayment of outstanding commercial paper. It can also be used for general company purposes. In 2024,
the term of this credit line was extended until 2029, and the credit line was not used at any point in 2024.
In 2023, BASF Integrated Site (Guangdong) Co. Ltd., China, signed a syndicated bank term loan facility
totaling 40 billion Chinese renminbi with a maturity of 15 years for the construction of the Verbund site in
Zhanjiang. Of this amount, 17 billion Chinese renminbi (€2.1 billion) was utilized as of December 31,
2024. Our external financing is largely independent of short-term fluctuations in the credit markets.
BASF Group’s most important financial contracts contain no side agreements with regard to specific
financial ratios (financial covenants) or compliance with a specific rating (rating trigger). To minimize risks
and leverage internal optimization potential within the Group, we bundle the financing, financial
investments and foreign currency hedging of BASF SE’s subsidiaries within the BASF Group where
possible. Foreign currency risks are primarily hedged centrally using derivative financial instruments in
the market.
Our interest risk management generally pursues the goal of reducing interest expenses for the
BASF Group and limiting interest risks. Interest rate hedging transactions are therefore conducted with
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 56
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
banks in order to turn selected liabilities to the capital market from fixed to variable interest rates or vice
versa (for more information, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 397 and
412).
Statement of cash flows
In the 2024 business year, cash flows from operating activities stood at €6,946 million, down by
€1,165 million on the prior-year figure. The decline was mainly caused by €1,434 million less cash
released from net working capital. Cash inflows, both from the reduction in inventories and trade
accounts receivable, were considerably lower in 2024 than in the previous year and totaled €264 million
(previous year: €3,339 million). The increase in trade accounts payable led to cash released in the
amount of €96 million, whereas cash in the amount of €1,544 million was tied up in the previous year.
In addition, the change in current and deferred taxes resulted in €784 million more tied up in cash than in
the previous year. Dividends received from investments accounted for using the equity method fell by
€180 million to €442 million; this was due in particular to reduced dividend payments from BASF-YPC
Company Ltd., Nanjing, China.
By contrast, income after taxes and after adjustment of noncash items resulted in cash inflows that were
€591 million higher than in the previous year; in addition, payments for variable compensation were
€689 million lower than in the previous year.
Cash flows from investing activities totaled -€5,081 million in the business year under review, after
-€4,991 million in the previous year. Payments for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
increased by €803 million and were mainly incurred in connection with investments in the new Verbund
site in China.
In the 2024 business year, €202 million was paid for acquisitions. This mainly related to the takeover of
plants at the MDI production facility in Shanghai, China, which was previously operated jointly by BASF
and Huntsman. Payments received in the amount of €75 million related to various smaller divestitures.
Payments were made in the amount of €598 million for the acquisition of equity-accounted shareholdings
in the Nordlicht 1 and 2 wind farm projects, and for subsequent capital increases. Payments received in
connection with the disposal of equity instruments included €1,169 million in connection with the transfer
of Wintershall Dea assets to Harbour Energy and a capital repayment from Wintershall Dea in the amount
of €556 million.
Cash flows from financing activities amounted to -€1,547 million, compared with -€2,905 million in
2023. The repayment and addition of financial and similar liabilities was reduced and their net change
resulted in an improvement of €1,524 million in cash flows from financing activities. The dividend
payment of €3,035 million to the shareholders of BASF SE remained unchanged compared with the
previous year. By contrast, dividends paid to noncontrolling shareholders climbed by €190 million to
€249 million.
Free cash flow, which remains after deducting payments made for property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets from cash flows from operating activities, represents the financial resources remaining
after investments. Free cash flow amounted to €748 million, compared with €2,715 million in 2023.
For more information on the statement of cash flows, see Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements from page 430 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 57
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Statement of cash flows
Million € 2024 2023
Net income 1,298 225
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of intangible assets 4,648 4,941
Changes in net working capitala 360 1,795
Miscellaneous itemsa 639 1,150
Cash flows from operating activities 6,946 8,111
Payments made for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -6,198 -5,395
Acquisitions/divestitures -127 27
Changes in financial assets and miscellaneous items 1,244 377
Cash flows from investing activities -5,081 -4,991
Capital repayments and other equity transactions -46 -70
Changes in financial and similar liabilities 1,783 259
Dividends -3,284 -3,094
Cash flows from financing activities -1,547 -2,905
Cash-effective changes in cash and cash equivalents 318 215
Changes in cash and cash equivalents from foreign exchanges rates and changes in the scope of
consolidation -21 -106
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,624 2,516
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the yearb 2,921 2,624
a The cash flow statement was adjusted in 2023. Net working capital and miscellaneous items have been redefined. Net working capital now comprises inventories and
trade accounts receivable less trade accounts payable.
b In 2024, the cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement differ from the figure in the balance sheet due to the existence of disposal groups.
Free cash flow
Million € 2024 2023
Cash flows from operating activities 6,946 8,111
− Payments made for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6,198 5,395
Free cash flow 748 2,715
Reconciliation of segment cash flow to free cash flow
Million € 2024 2023
Segment cash flow 2,339 5,462
+ Net income from shareholdings 598 -200
+ Financial result -563 -620
+ Income taxesa -616 -1,041
– Income after taxes attributable to noncontrolling interests 155 154
+ Changes in items included in the segment cash flow that are recognized under Other, as well as
other items presented in the cash flows from operating activitiesb -855 -733
Free cash flow 748 2,715
a The value corresponds to the amount reported in the statement of income and does not represent a cash flow.
b For more information on the composition of the items, see page 30.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 58
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Actual Development Compared with Outlook for 2024
Earnings and cash flow forecast for the BASF Group
In 2024, the BASF Group generated EBITDA before special items of €7.9 billion. This figure is slightly
below the forecast range at the beginning of the year of €8.0 billion to €8.6 billion. This was mainly due to
the earnings declines in our standalone businesses. While we had forecast a slight decline in EBITDA
before special items for Agricultural Solutions in February 2024, the segment posted much lower
earnings. In the Surface Technologies segment, EBITDA before special items fell slightly, after we had
anticipated a result on par with the previous year (for more information on the background to the
deviating developments, see below). Our core businesses increased their earnings as assumed.
The BASF Group’s free cash flow amounted to €0.7 billion in the 2024 business year and therefore
exceeded our forecast range of €0.1 billion to €0.6 billion. This increase was due to payments for
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, which rose considerably compared with the
previous year, but were lower than expected at €6.2 billion (forecast: €6.5 billion). Cash flows from
operating activities amounted to €6.9 billion and were within our forecast range of €6.6 billion to
€7.1 billion.
CO emissions forecast for the BASF Group
2
CO emissions amounted to 17.0 million metric tons and were therefore within the range we had forecast
2
in February 2024 of between 16.7 million metric tons to 17.7 million metric tons. Additional emissions
due to higher production volumes were offset by reductions in emissions as a result of process
efficiencies and the increased use of renewable energies.
Capex forecast for the BASF Group
In 2024, we invested around €6.0 billion in property, plant and equipment, excluding additions from
acquisitions, IT investments, restoration obligations and right-of-use assets arising from leases. The
figure forecast in February 2024 was around €6.2 billion. All core businesses and the Agricultural
Solutions segment invested less than originally planned. Only the Surface Technologies segment’s
investments were slightly higher than planned.
Earnings and cash flow forecast for the segments
In the Chemicals segment, EBITDA before special items and the segment cash flow developed as
expected in February 2024. The segment considerably increased its earnings, whereas the cash flow fell
sharply.
The Materials segment also developed in line with our expectations. Earnings improved slightly. As
forecast, the Performance Materials division increased EBITDA before special items, primarily due to a
higher contribution margin. In the Monomers division, EBITDA before special items rose considerably.
Here too, a higher contribution margin played a significant role and, contrary to our expectations,
overcompensated for the forecast increase in fixed costs. We had initially forecast a slight earnings
decline for the division in February 2024. In accordance with our forecast, the segment’s cash flow
decreased considerably.
As assumed, the Industrial Solutions segment also considerably increased EBITDA before special
items. As forecast, the segment’s cash flow declined considerably.
In the Nutrition & Care segment, we had forecast a considerable earnings increase and a sharp fall in
segment cash flow for the 2024 business year. Both indicators developed as forecast.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 59
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Earnings in the Surface Technologies segment were slightly below the prior-year figure. We originally
expected EBITDA before special items at the prior-year level. This decrease was caused by a sharp
earnings decline in the Catalysts division, which primarily resulted from lower precious metal prices and
volumes. We had expected a slight increase in earnings. In the Coatings division, EBITDA before special
items, on the other hand, was slightly above the prior-year level, although we had projected a slight
decline. A higher contribution margin more than compensated for higher fixed costs and lower volumes.
As forecast, cash flow declined considerably in both divisions.
In the Agricultural Solutions segment, EBITDA before special items decreased considerably rather than
slightly. Alongside the expected rise in fixed costs, the difficult market conditions in the glufosinate-
ammonium business were instrumental in the decline being steeper than planned. Unlike earnings, the
segment’s cash flow developed more positively than expected. It was slightly above the prior-year figure
mainly due to significant inventory reduction and a lower increase in receivables. We had anticipated a
considerable decrease.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 60
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Business Review by Segment
Segment overview
EBITDA before
Million € Sales special items EBITDA
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Chemicals 10,838 10,369 1,342 1,167 1,314 1,167
Materials 13,510 14,149 1,805 1,650 1,769 1,523
Industrial Solutions 8,175 8,010 1,161 965 1,140 1,010
Nutrition & Care 6,729 6,858 814 565 819 578
Surface Technologies 12,898 16,204 1,375 1,520 1,160 1,351
Agricultural Solutions 9,798 10,092 1,938 2,270 1,659 2,177
Other 3,312 3,220 -578 -466 -1,179 -626
BASF Group 65,260 68,902 7,858 7,671 6,681 7,180
Segment overview
Segment Investments including
Million € cash flow Assets acquisitionsa
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Chemicals -2,051 -936 14,266 11,468 3,403 2,706
Materials 766 1,369 10,135 9,716 1,139 1,083
Industrial Solutions 868 1,292 5,629 5,576 289 285
Nutrition & Care -31 503 7,887 7,496 809 765
Surface Technologies 925 1,488 11,513 12,657 560 621
Agricultural Solutions 1,861 1,746 15,377 16,089 387 353
Otherb 15,609 14,393 241 195
BASF Group 80,415 77,395 6,826 6,006
a Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
b Includes assets of businesses recognized under Other and reconciliation to assets of the BASF Group
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 61
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Salesa
Million € Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Chemicals 2,764 2,833 2,838 2,679 2,714 2,430 2,521 2,427
Materials 3,441 3,844 3,416 3,609 3,413 3,349 3,240 3,348
Industrial Solutions 2,057 2,143 2,147 2,050 2,092 1,948 1,879 1,869
Nutrition & Care 1,729 1,826 1,667 1,712 1,711 1,688 1,623 1,631
Surface Technologies 3,347 4,578 3,235 4,226 3,132 3,887 3,183 3,514
Agricultural Solutions 3,478 3,891 1,937 2,231 1,849 1,744 2,534 2,227
Other 736 877 870 799 829 689 876 855
BASF Group 17,553 19,991 16,111 17,305 15,739 15,735 15,856 15,871
EBITDA before special itemsa
Million € Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Chemicals 453 426 444 393 342 252 103 95
Materials 508 448 448 462 484 360 365 380
Industrial Solutions 332 300 320 207 301 207 208 250
Nutrition & Care 262 192 183 140 201 104 168 130
Surface Technologies 356 402 366 374 341 404 312 340
Agricultural Solutions 1,361 1,432 135 392 49 225 394 221
Other -560 -336 62 -24 -96 -8 16 -99
BASF Group 2,712 2,864 1,957 1,944 1,622 1,545 1,567 1,317
Segment cash flowa
Million € Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Chemicals -556 -187 -406 31 -363 -171 -726 -609
Materials 85 111 137 573 299 354 246 332
Industrial Solutions 59 148 150 414 356 416 303 314
Nutrition & Care -64 3 19 186 52 157 -38 157
Surface Technologies 292 307 190 427 232 307 211 448
Agricultural Solutions -715 -758 1,005 1,079 612 853 959 572
a Quarterly results not audited
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 62
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Chemicals
The Chemicals segment comprises the Petrochemicals and Intermediates
operating divisions. It contributes to our direct customer business and supplies
the other segments with basic chemicals and intermediates, contributing to the
organic growth of our key value chains. Alongside internal transfers, our
customers mainly come from the chemical and plastics industries. We aim to
further strengthen our competitiveness through technological leadership,
operational excellence and products with a lower carbon footprint.
At a glance
€1,342 million -€2,051 million
EBITDA before special items Segment cash flow
2023: €1,167 million 2023: -€936 million
Compared with the previous year, sales in the Chemicals segment rose. Sales growth in the
Petrochemicals division more than made up for the decline in the Intermediates division.
Factors influencing sales
Chemicals Petrochemicals Intermediates
Volumes 8.1 % 8.7 % 6.8 %
Prices -3.1 % 0.3 % -11.7 %
Currencies -0.5 % -0.5 % -0.6 %
Portfolio – – –
Sales 4.5 % 8.5 % -5.5 %
The increase in sales were mainly attributable to higher volumes in both divisions, due primarily to lower
imports to Europe in the first half of 2024 as a result of the conflict in the Red Sea, as well as both
planned and unplanned plant shutdowns among competitors. The Petrochemicals division increased
volumes across all value chains, particularly in the propylene value chain, for steam cracker products as
well as styrene monomers. The Intermediates division posted higher sales volumes, especially in Europe,
in the amines as well as acids and polyalcohols business areas.
By contrast, lower prices in all business areas of the Intermediates division weighed on sales
performance for the segment. This development was mainly driven by overcapacities in the market.
Prices were slightly above the prior-year level in the Petrochemicals division, with higher prices for steam
cracker products making up for lower prices in the propylene value chain.
Minor negative currency effects in both divisions resulted primarily from the Brazilian real and the
Chinese renminbi.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 63
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
EBITDA before special items1 for the Chemicals segment rose considerably compared with the prior-
year figure. The increase was based on considerable earnings growth in the Petrochemicals division. The
division improved EBITDA before special items, thanks in particular to a volume-related increase in the
contribution margin, especially the margin for steam cracker products. Higher fixed costs, which were
predominantly incurred in connection with the construction of the Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China, had
an offsetting effect. In the Intermediates division, EBITDA before special items declined considerably.
The decrease was attributable above all to a price-related decrease in the contribution margin in North
America, especially in the butanediol and derivatives business, and a lower earnings contribution from
equity-accounted shareholdings in China.
Segment cash flow1 was considerably below the prior-year figure in both divisions. This was mainly
driven by higher capital expenditures, especially for the construction of the Verbund site in China. A
buildup in inventories to support the increase in sales volumes had an additional negative impact on the
segment’s cash flow development. Both divisions had reduced inventories in the prior-year period.
Segment data – Chemicals
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales to third parties 10,838 10,369 4.5 %
of which Petrochemicals 8,050 7,418 8.5 %
Intermediates 2,788 2,951 -5.5 %
Intersegment transfers 3,962 3,606 9.9 %
Sales including transfers 14,800 13,975 5.9 %
EBITDA before special items 1,342 1,167 15.0 %
Special items in EBITDA -28 0 .
EBITDA 1,314 1,167 12.6 %
EBITDA margin before special items % 12.4 11.3 –
Depreciation and amortizationa 885 803 10.3 %
EBIT before special items 503 361 39.4 %
Special items in EBIT -74 4 .
Income from operations (EBIT) 429 364 17.7 %
Investments including acquisitionsb 3,403 2,706 25.8 %
Segment cash flow -2,051 -936 -119.2 %
Assets (December 31) 14,266 11,468 24.4 %
Research and development expenses 80 83 -4.4 %
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
b Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Chemicals – sales by region
By location of customer
1 For EBITDA before special items and cash flow, “slight” means a change of 0.1%–10.0%, while “considerable” and its synonyms are used for changes of 10.1% and higher.
“At prior-year level” indicates no change (+/-0.0%).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 64
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Materials
In terms of production capacity, our Materials segment is one of the world’s
leading suppliers of high-performance plastics as well as their precursors and
home to the operating divisions Performance Materials and Monomers. With its
broad portfolio of large-volume monomers and basic polymers in the isocyanate
and polyamide value chains, the Monomers division follows a lean and cost-
driven approach. The Performance Materials division offers innovative and
customized solutions in engineering plastics, polyurethanes and thermoplastic
polyurethanes, and creates value through cocreations with customers,
particularly in the field of sustainability.
At a glance
€1,805 million €766 million
EBITDA before special items Segment cash flow
2023: €1,650 million 2023: €1,369 million
In the Materials segment, sales were below the prior-year figure in both operating divisions.
Factors influencing sales
Performance
Materials Materials Monomers
Volumes 2.1 % 0.7 % 3.5 %
Prices -5.5 % -4.8 % -6.2 %
Currencies -1.0 % -1.2 % -0.8 %
Portfolio -0.1 % -0.2 % –
Sales -4.5 % -5.5 % -3.5 %
Both divisions were able to increase sales volumes, particularly in the Asia Pacific region. The Monomers
division additionally increased volumes in Europe. In particular, it increased sales of MDI and propylene
oxide. Volumes in the Performance Materials division were mainly higher for polyurethane systems.
However, the positive volume development was more than offset by negative price effects in all regions
and value chains. The Monomers division reported the biggest price decline in the TDI business, with TDI
prices in China plummeting to 2015 levels at times.
Currency effects, primarily relating to the Chinese renminbi, the Brazilian real and the South Korean won,
had a slight negative impact on the segment’s sales performance.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 65
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
EBITDA before special items grew in both divisions. The increase was attributable to a higher
contribution margin in Europe due to higher volumes. Higher fixed costs had an offsetting effect.
However, the cost savings measures implemented were unable to offset the contribution of positive
one-off effects from the previous year.
The segment’s EBITDA included special items totaling -€37 million. Special charges resulted above all
for expenses relating to adapting the production structure at the Verbund site in Ludwigshafen, Germany.
Special income arose mainly from a contractually agreed one-time payment.
Segment cash flow for the Materials segment was considerably below the figure for the previous year.
Cash tied up in the working capital of both divisions was a key factor in the cash flow decrease, whereas
cash had been released in the previous year based primarily on systematic inventory reductions. Higher
earnings and lower capital expenditures were unable to make up this deficit.
Segment data – Materials
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales to third parties 13,510 14,149 -4.5 %
of which Performance Materials 6,848 7,244 -5.5 %
Monomers 6,661 6,905 -3.5 %
Intersegment transfers 825 864 -4.5 %
Sales including transfers 14,335 15,013 -4.5 %
EBITDA before special items 1,805 1,650 9.4 %
Special items in EBITDA -37 -127 71.1 %
EBITDA 1,769 1,523 16.1 %
EBITDA margin before special items % 13.4 11.7 –
Depreciation and amortizationa 830 1,146 -27.6 %
EBIT before special items 987 826 19.4 %
Special items in EBIT -48 -449 89.2 %
Income from operations (EBIT) 939 378 148.6 %
Investments including acquisitionsb 1,139 1,083 5.2 %
Segment cash flow 766 1,369 -44.1 %
Assets (December 31) 10,135 9,716 4.3 %
Research and development expenses 180 185 -2.7 %
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
b Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Materials – sales by region
By location of customer
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 66
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Industrial Solutions
The Industrial Solutions segment consists of the Dispersions & Resins and the
Performance Chemicals divisions. It develops and markets ingredients and
additives for industrial applications, such as polymer dispersions, resins,
additives, electronic materials and antioxidants. We aim to grow organically in key
industries, such as paints and coatings, construction, electronic materials,
chemicals, plastics and adhesives, paper coatings, automotive as well as energy
and resources, and expand our market position by leveraging our comprehensive
industry expertise and application know-how.
At a glance
€1,161 million €868 million
EBITDA before special items Segment cash flow
2023: €965 million 2023: €1,292 million
Industrial Solutions increased sales compared with 2023 due to sales growth in the Dispersions & Resins
division. Sales in the Performance Chemicals division were slightly below the prior-year figure.
Factors influencing sales
Industrial Dispersions Performance
0
Solutions & Resins Chemicals
Volumes 7.0% 7.0% 6.9%
Prices -3.6% -2.1% -6.1%
Currencies -1.1% -1.1% -1.1%
Portfolio -0.2% – -0.5%
Sales 2.1% 3.8% -0.7%
The increase in sales was mainly driven by higher volumes in all regions and in nearly all business areas
based on a slight uptick in demand.
By contrast, prices declined in all regions and business areas, primarily as a result of lower prices for raw
materials. Prices were also reduced in order to secure market share.
Sales in the Industrial Solutions segment were additionally impacted by negative currency effects, above
all relating to the Brazilian real, the Chinese renminbi and the Japanese yen.
EBITDA before special items saw a considerable year-on-year increase in both divisions, mainly due to
a volume-related increase in the contribution margin. Earnings growth also received slight support from
lower fixed costs compared with 2023. The decline in fixed costs resulted mainly from currency effects
and cost reduction measures.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 67
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Segment cash flow declined considerably in the Industrial Solutions segment, mainly due to buildups of
inventories after having reduced inventories in 2023. In addition, there was a lower reduction in
receivables compared with the previous year. By contrast, higher earnings had a positive impact on cash
flow in both divisions.
Segment data – Industrial Solutions
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales to third parties 8,175 8,010 2.1 %
of which Dispersions & Resins 5,110 4,921 3.8 %
Performance Chemicals 3,065 3,088 -0.7 %
Intersegment transfers 385 436 -11.7 %
Sales including transfers 8,560 8,445 1.4 %
EBITDA before special items 1,161 965 20.3 %
Special items in EBITDA -22 45 .
EBITDA 1,140 1,010 12.8 %
EBITDA margin before special items % 14.2 12.0 –
Depreciation and amortizationa 360 349 3.0 %
EBIT before special items 811 625 29.8 %
Special items in EBIT -32 35 .
Income from operations (EBIT) 780 660 18.1 %
Investments including acquisitionsb 289 285 1.3 %
Segment cash flow 868 1,292 -32.8 %
Assets (December 31) 5,629 5,576 1.0 %
Research and development expenses 144 150 -3.9 %
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
b Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Industrial Solutions – sales by region
By location of customer
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 68
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Nutrition & Care
The Nutrition & Care segment consists of the Care Chemicals and the Nutrition &
Health divisions. This segment serves the growing demands of food and feed
producers and of the pharmaceutical, cosmetics, detergent and cleaner
industries as well as the ever-increasing requirements of fast-moving consumer
goods. We leverage the BASF Verbund to offer innovative products, combining
application performance with beneficial sustainability profiles. We strive to expand
our position as a leading provider of essential ingredients in the areas of nutrition,
home and personal care, mainly through organic growth. We focus on growth
markets, positioning ourselves as the preferred partner for the green and digital
transformation of our customers.
At a glance
€814 million -€31 million
EBITDA before special items Segment cash flow
2023: €565 million 2023: €503 million
Sales in the Nutrition & Care segment declined compared with 2023. The increase in sales of the Care
Chemicals division was unable to offset a decline in sales in the Nutrition & Health division.
Factors influencing sales
Nutrition & Care Nutrition &
Care Chemicals Health
Volumes 5.2% 7.9% -0.7%
Prices -5.2% -5.5% -4.4%
Currencies -1.5% -1.7% -1.1%
Portfolio -0.4% – -1.2%
Sales -1.9% 0.7% -7.4%
Sales performance was positively impacted by strong volume growth overall within the segment. The
Care Chemicals division raised volumes in all business areas. However, the sales performance in the
Nutrition & Health division declined slightly. Lower volumes due to force majeure on deliveries of selected
precursors of vitamin A, vitamin E and carotenoids as well as of certain aroma ingredients as a result of a
fire in the isophytol plant could not be offset by volume growth in almost all other business areas. On
January 24, 2025, we lifted the force majeure for some of the aroma ingredients affected. It continues to
remain in force for the other aroma substances and the precursors of vitamin A, vitamin E and
carotenoids.
This sales decline of the segment resulted above all from competition-driven price decreases across all
business areas.
Sales were also impacted by negative currency effects, particularly relating to the Argentine peso, the
Brazilian real and the Turkish lira.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 69
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Both divisions considerably increased EBITDA before special items. In the Care Chemicals division, the
increase was mainly the result of a volume-related rise in the contribution margin. Earnings for the
Nutrition & Health division were above the prior-year level due to higher margins. Higher fixed costs,
particularly as a result of the fire at the isopyhtol plant, had a negative impact on the division’s earnings
growth.
Segment cash flow declined considerably compared with the previous year. The Nutrition & Health
division recorded negative cash flow, in part as a result of higher expenditures for the investments in the
aroma business in Zhanjiang, China, and Ludwigshafen, Germany. In addition, the reduction in
inventories was less pronounced than in the previous year. Higher earnings improved cash flow. The
Care Chemicals division recorded positive cash flow, although it was considerably below the figure for
the previous year. Here, the increase in earnings was unable to compensate for cash tied up in
inventories to support the positive sales performance. In contrast, a considerable reduction in inventories
and receivables due to lower demand made a positive contribution to cash flow in the previous year.
Segment data – Nutrition & Care
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales to third parties 6,729 6,858 -1.9 %
of which Care Chemicals 4,751 4,721 0.7 %
Nutrition & Health 1,978 2,137 -7.4 %
Intersegment transfers 446 429 4.1 %
Sales including transfers 7,176 7,286 -1.5 %
EBITDA before special items 814 565 44.0 %
Special items in EBITDA 5 12 -56.8 %
EBITDA 819 578 41.8 %
EBITDA margin before special items % 12.1 8.2 –
Depreciation and amortizationa 599 459 30.6 %
EBIT before special items 273 107 155.9 %
Special items in EBIT -53 12 .
Income from operations (EBIT) 220 119 84.8 %
Investments including acquisitionsb 809 765 5.8 %
Segment cash flow -31 503 .
Assets (December 31) 7,887 7,496 5.2 %
Research and development expenses 149 150 -0.7 %
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
b Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Nutrition & Care – sales by region
By location of customer
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 70
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Surface Technologies
Until the end of 2024, the Surface Technologies segment comprised the
Catalysts and Coatings divisions (for more information on the future composition
of the segment, see page 12). Its portfolio includes, for example, automotive
OEM and refinish coatings, surface treatment, catalysts, battery materials as well
as precious metals and base metal services for the automotive and chemical
industries. We improve our customers’ applications and processes with tailored
products, technologies and solutions, and support them through geographical
proximity across all regions. The aim is to drive BASF’s growth by leveraging our
portfolio of technologies and existing customer networks and expanding our
position as a leading and innovative provider of surface coatings solutions and
battery materials.
At a glance
€1,375 million €925 million
EBITDA before special items Segment cash flow
2023: €1,520 million 2023: €1,488 million
In the Surface Technologies segment, sales declined in both operating divisions compared with the
previous year. The negative sales performance was especially notable in the Catalysts division.
Factors influencing sales
Surface
Technologies Catalysts Coatings
Volumes -7.6% -10.3% -0.3%
Prices -11.0% -16.0% 2.5%
Currencies -1.6% -0.5% -4.5%
Portfolio -0.2% -0.3% -0.1%
Sales -20.4% -27.1% -2.4%
The decline in segment sales was mainly driven by lower prices for both precious and base metals1 in the
Catalysts division. Price increases, especially in the automotive OEM coatings and surface treatments
business areas of the Coatings division, were unable to compensate for the aforementioned lower prices.
The decline in sales was exacerbated by considerably lower sales volumes in the Catalysts division,
particularly in the mobile emissions catalysts business area. Volumes remained nearly at the prior-year
level in the Coatings division. Volume growth in the surface treatments and decorative paints businesses
almost made up for slightly lower volumes in the automotive OEM coatings business area.
1 Sales, factors influencing sales, EBITDA before special items and the EBITDA margin before special items excluding precious and base metals for the BASF Group and for
the Surface Technologies segment are presented under Selected Key Figures Excluding Precious and Base Metals on page 472.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 71
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Negative currency effects – mainly relating to the Argentine peso, the Brazilian real and the Turkish lira –
also reduced the segment’s sales.
In addition, the segment’s sales performance was impacted by portfolio effects, particularly those arising
from the divestiture of the Catalysts division’s production site in De Meern, Netherlands as of August 31,
2023.
The segment’s EBITDA before special items decreased slightly. The decrease was due to the
considerable earnings decline in the Catalysts division compared with 2023, which was attributable
above all to the decline of precious metal prices in combination with lower sales volumes. Earnings in the
Catalysts division benefited from a higher contribution margin in the chemical and refinery catalysts
business. However, in the Coatings division, EBITDA before special items was slightly above the prior-
year level. An increased contribution margin was contrasted primarily by higher fixed costs due to
inflation and negative currency effects.
Special items in EBITDA amounted to -€215 million in 2024 and mainly resulted from special charges in
connection with the conversion of the ERP system to support the differentiated steering of the business.
In addition, costs were incurred in the Catalysts division in connection with impairments on property,
plant and equipment in the battery materials business. Also in 2023, special charges were incurred in this
business in connection with impairments on property, plant and equipment.
The segment cash flow fell considerably, primarily as a result of a lower reduction in receivables and
inventories compared with the previous year and lower EBITDA in the Catalysts division. The cash flow
development in the Coatings division was mainly due to lower EBITDA as a result of special items as well
as cash tied up in inventories.
Segment data – Surface Technologies
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales to third parties 12,898 16,204 -20.4 %
of which Catalysts 8,617 11,818 -27.1 %
Coatings 4,280 4,387 -2.4 %
Intersegment transfers 206 176 17.0 %
Sales including transfers 13,104 16,381 -20.0 %
EBITDA before special items 1,375 1,520 -9.5 %
Special items in EBITDA -215 -168 -27.9 %
EBITDA 1,160 1,351 -14.2 %
EBITDA margin before special items % 10.7 9.4 –
Depreciation and amortizationa 1,137 986 15.4 %
EBIT before special items 786 938 -16.3 %
Special items in EBIT -763 -572 -33.3 %
Income from operations (EBIT) 22 366 -93.9 %
Investments including acquisitionsb 560 621 -9.8 %
Segment cash flow 925 1,488 -37.8 %
Assets (December 31) 11,513 12,657 -9.0 %
Research and development expenses 313 304 2.9 %
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
b Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 72
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Surface Technologies – sales by region
By location of customer
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 73
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Agricultural Solutions
In the Agricultural Solutions segment, we aim to further strengthen our market
position as a leading provider of innovative solutions in the agricultural industry.
Our product portfolio is designed for different crop systems. We connect seeds
and traits, seed treatment products, biological and chemical crop protection
products, digital tools and our commitment to sustainability to deliver the best
possible outcomes for farmers, growers and our other stakeholders along the
value chain. Our strategy is based on innovation-driven organic growth and
targeted portfolio enhancement and expansion through collaborations and
acquisitions. Customer needs, societal expectations and reduced environmental
impact are what motivate us to innovate. 〈Our innovation pipeline has a peak
sales potential of more than €7.5 billion for products launched by 2034.〉
At a glance
€1,938 million €1,861 million
EBITDA before special items Segment cash flow
2023: €2,270 million 2023: €1,746 million
In the Agricultural Solutions segment, sales were below the figure of the previous year at €9,798 million
in 2024. This was due to considerable negative currency effects and slightly lower prices, particularly for
the herbicide glufosinate-ammonium. Increased volumes were unable to fully offset this.
Factors influencing sales
Agricultural
Solutions
Volumes 2.8%
Prices -0.3%
Currencies -5.4%
Portfolio –
Sales -2.9%
Sales in Europe declined by €190 million to €2,410 million due to lower volumes of crop protection
products and negative currency effects, particularly in relation to the Turkish lira. Higher prices had a
positive effect.
In North America, sales dropped below the level of the previous year to €3,897 million. The decline was
mainly driven by lower prices, especially for glufosinate-ammonium. Negative currency effects – in
particular in relation to the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso – also contributed to the sales decline.
Sales volumes remained stable.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 74
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In Asia, sales rose by €63 million to €1,135 million due to volume increases in nearly all indications.
Negative currency effects, particularly in relation to the Chinese renminbi and the Japanese yen, as well
as lower prices dampened the performance.
Sales in the South America, Africa, Middle East region declined by €63 million on the previous year to
€2,356 million. The decrease was attributable to negative currency effects, particularly in relation to the
Brazilian real and the Argentine peso, as well as lower prices. Higher volumes in nearly all indications had
an offsetting effect.
EBITDA before special items decreased considerably. This was mainly due to developments in the
glufosinate-ammonium business as a result of difficult market conditions. In addition, fixed costs
increased compared with the previous year due to inflation and, among other things, an insurance
payment included in the previous year. The decrease in earnings also led to a decline in the EBITDA
margin before special items, which amounted to 19.8% compared to 22.5% in the previous year.
EBITDA for 2024 included special items of -€279 million. These resulted in particular from expenses for
provisions, which were recognized due to the announced closure of the German production and
formulation plants for glufosinate-ammonium in Knapsack and Frankfurt am Main.
Despite a significant decrease in EBITDA, the segment cash flow was slightly above the previous year’s
figure, mainly due to positive effects from a considerable reduction in inventories and a lower increase in
receivables.
Segment data – Agricultural Solutions
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales to third parties 9,798 10,092 -2.9%
of which Fungicides 3,014 3,047 -1.1%
Herbicides 2,965 3,380 -12.3%
Insecticides 1,102 1,041 5.9%
Seed Treatment 598 662 -9.6%
Seeds & Traits 2,119 1,962 8.0%
Intersegment transfers 50 36 39.1%
Sales including transfers 9,848 10,128 -2.8%
EBITDA before special items 1,938 2,270 -14.6%
Special items in EBITDA -279 -93 -200.7%
EBITDA 1,659 2,177 -23.8%
EBITDA margin before special items % 19.8 22.5 –
Depreciation and amortizationa 675 1,046 -35.4%
EBIT before special items 1,270 1,563 -18.8%
Special items in EBIT -286 -433 33.9%
Income from operations (EBIT) 984 1,131 -13.0%
Investments including acquisitionsb 387 353 9.7%
Segment cash flow 1,861 1,746 6.6%
Assets (December 31) 15,377 16,089 -4.4%
Research and development expenses 919 900 2.0%
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
b Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 75
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Agricultural Solutions – sales by region
By location of customer
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 76
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Other
At a glance
€3,312 million -€578 million
Sales EBITDA before special items
2023: €3,220 million 2023: -€466 million
Sales in Other were above the prior-year level. This was mainly due to an increase in commodity and
energy trading.
EBITDA before special items of Other fell considerably compared with the previous year. This resulted
from currency results, hedging and other measurement effects included in other expenses as well as
lower earnings contributions from other businesses.
EBITDA in Other included special items amounting to -€601 million in 2024. This included special
charges in the amount of €301 million for the class settlement, which does not constitute any admission
of liability, in connection with AFFF multidistrict litigation in the United States.
Financial data – Other
Million € 2024 2023 +/-
Sales to third parties 3,312 3,220 2.8%
EBITDA before special items -578 -466 -24.0%
of which costs for cross-divisional corporate research -183 -227 19.4%
costs of corporate headquarters -232 -222 -4.4%
other businesses 171 200 -14.6%
miscellaneous income and expenses -334 -218 -53.6%
Special items in EBITDA -601 -159 -277.0%
EBITDA -1,179 -626 -88.5%
Depreciation and amortizationa 161 153 5.5%
EBIT before special items -718 -614 -16.9%
Special items in EBIT -622 -164 -279.1%
Income from operations (EBIT) -1,340 -778 -72.2%
Investments including acquisitionsb 241 195 23.2%
Assets (December 31)ᶜ 15,609 14,393 8.4%
Research and development expenses 276 356 -22.5%
a Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including impairments and reversals of impairments)
b Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
c Includes assets of businesses recognized under Other and reconciliation to assets of the BASF Group
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 77
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Forecast
We expect global GDP growth of 2.6% and industrial growth of 2.4%.
Demand for goods is therefore expected to have a somewhat stronger
significance for economic development than in 2024. In this economic
environment, we expect chemical production to grow by 3.0%. The
macroeconomic risks are high in view of geopolitical conflicts and
increasing protectionist tendencies.
Economic Environment in 20251
The decline in consumer price inflation in 2024 and associated real income gains will support consumer
purchasing power in the United States and Europe. Short-term interest rates are also likely to continue
falling, at least in the eurozone. However, long-term interest rates, which are crucial for the development
of real estate markets and corporate investments, are no longer expected to decline significantly. Fiscal
stimulus measures to boost growth are increasingly constrained by the high level of government debt in
many countries, which rose considerably during the coronavirus pandemic. Particularly in Europe, the
economic challenges of demographic change and effects of the accelerated climate policy
transformation on corporate competitiveness and household purchasing power are becoming more
pronounced.
Furthermore, the high level of geopolitical and trade policy uncertainty will weigh on consumer and
business confidence. In particular, higher import tariffs imposed by the United States and retaliatory
measures from trading partners could drive up global inflation and interest rates, thereby dampening
economic growth more than assumed in our forecast.
Trends in the global economy in 2025
We anticipate global GDP to grow by 2.6% at around the same rate as in 2024. For the advanced
economies, we expect growth to remain largely unchanged at 1.5% overall. The emerging markets are
expected to grow by around 4%, as in 2024.
For the European Union (EU), we expect slightly higher GDP growth (2025: +1.2%, 2024: +0.9%). Since
leading economic indicators do not point to an imminent recovery in industrial demand, we anticipate
subdued growth in EU countries with a high industrial share. For Germany in particular, despite a rise in
private household purchasing power, we expect weak growth of only 0.3% following stagnation in 2024.
We also expect only slight growth for Italy and France. For Spain, we are forecasting slightly higher
growth of just over 2%. Given the overall muted growth environment in western Europe, eastern EU
countries are also expected to expand only slightly more than in 2024 (2025: +2.5%, 2024: +1.7%).
For the United Kingdom, we anticipate slightly higher growth (2025: +1.0%, 2024: +0.8%) amid falling
interest rates and the increased willingness of private households to spend.
1 Our assumptions account for current estimates by external institutions, including economic research institutes, banks, multinational organizations and consulting firms.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 78
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In the United States, we expect economic growth to slow down (2025: +2.0%) following the strong
upswing in 2024 (+2.8%). The economic tailwind from falling interest rates and positive wealth effects in
private portfolios is expected to fade. Wage growth is also likely to decrease given the slightly weaker
labor market. Rising import tariffs could also lead to a renewed increase in consumer price inflation. This
is countered by the economic stimulus effects of potential tax cuts and additional investments.
China’s economy is expected to weaken slightly with growth of around 4.5% (2024: +5.0%). While we
expect demand for private goods to stabilize further, growth in demand for services is expected to slow,
likely resulting in a lower overall growth rate of private consumption. Exports are also expected to grow
slightly less than in 2024. Higher import tariffs in the United States represent a risk factor. In 2024, the
United States accounted for around 15% of China’s total goods export. However, the impact of rising
U.S. tariffs should not be overestimated given that gross exports to the United States account for around
3% of GDP and that trade diversion in response to increasing tariffs will mitigate some effects.
For the other emerging Asian markets, we expect growth to remain largely unchanged (2025: +5.2%,
2024: +5.2%). In the long term, the region will benefit from the diversification of international supply
chains and a growing young population with rising incomes. In India, we expect above-average growth of
around 6.5%, and for the ASEAN countries consistently high growth of around 4.7%.
For Japan we expect GDP to grow again (2025: +1.1%, 2024: +0.1%). Industrial production is expected
to recover slightly following the sharp downturn in the automotive industry and information and
communications technologies. In addition, rising incomes are likely to support private household
consumption.
In South America, we anticipate higher overall growth (2025: +2.3%, 2024: +2.0%). This growth spurt is
primarily attributable to higher expectations for Argentina fueled by declining inflation rates and market
liberal reforms. After a decline of 2.9% in Argentina’s GDP in 2024, growth of more than 3% is forecast
for 2025. In contrast, Brazil’s growth is expected to slow down, but still remain solid at around 2%.
Outlook for gross domestic product 2025 and 2025–2027
Real change compared with previous year 2025 2025–2027
World 2.6% 2.6%
European Union 1.2% 1.4%
United States 2.0% 1.7%
China 4.5% 4.4%
Emerging markets of Asia excluding China 5.2% 5.1%
Japan 1.1% 0.8%
South America 2.3% 2.4%
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 79
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Outlook for key customer industries
We anticipate global industrial production to increase by 2.4% (2024: +2.1%). In the advanced
economies it is likely to grow again slightly (2025: +0.8%, 2024: -0.1%). Growth in the emerging markets
will probably remain at a similar level to the previous year (2025: +3.6%, 2024: +3.9%).
We are forecasting stagnation for the entire transportation industry.1 For the production of passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles, we expect stagnation after the decrease in 2024. Global production
will therefore remain at around 89.5 million vehicles. Marginal growth is expected for the Chinese
market. In contrast, we anticipate a decline in production for the EU, the United States, South Korea
and Japan. For Japan, production should stabilize after the sharp decline in 2024 and only decrease
slightly. The share of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) in the total production volume is expected to
increase further from around 13% in 2024 to around 17% in 2025.
Given the slightly higher global industrial growth, the energy and raw materials sector is likely to grow
at a slightly faster pace in 2025 compared with the previous year. All subsectors (energy supply, oil and
gas production, refining, non-energy raw materials extraction) are expected to contribute to growth.
For the construction industry, we anticipate a slight recovery with continued weak residential
construction, moderate growth in nonresidential construction and solid growth in the infrastructure
segment. Demand for residential properties will continue to be impacted by comparatively high interest
rates and high construction costs in the United States and Europe. In the United States, the positive
effects in government-subsidized industrial construction are expected to diminish. Further, we anticipate
a decline in residential construction given the current trend in construction starts. Weak expansion in the
overall EU market is expected after a considerable decline in 2024, while residential construction will
continue to contract. The real estate crisis in China is expected to ease. Despite a continued decline in
new residential construction, we anticipate the overall market to grow moderately.
Overall, consumer goods production is likely to grow at a similar rate as global GDP. Demand for
nondurable (care products) and durable consumer goods (textiles) in particular is expected to grow
largely in line with GDP. After stagnating in 2024, we now expect weak growth in the furniture industry.
Growth in the electronics industry is likely to remain dynamic, but slightly weaker than in 2024. In
particular, above-average growth rates are expected in the computer and communications technology
sector. However, traditional consumer electronics is likely to see weaker growth.
In the health and nutrition sector, we anticipate growth to be stronger than in 2024 and slightly above
GDP. In line with long-term trends, the food industry is expected to grow at the same rate as global GDP,
while slightly higher growth is projected for the pharmaceutical industry.
Agricultural production is expected to grow at a slightly higher rate in 2025 than in the prior-year
period. Following the weather-related lower growth in 2024, we anticipate a higher growth rate in Europe.
In North America, however, we expect a slowdown. South America is also unlikely to maintain the high
growth momentum of 2024. In Asia, by far the world’s largest agricultural market with a two-thirds share,
agricultural production is expected to grow slightly faster than in 2024.
1 The transportation industry includes the production of motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts and the construction of other vehicles (especially ships and boats, trains, air and
spacecraft, and two-wheelers).
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 80
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Outlook for the chemical industry
Growth in the global chemical industry (excluding pharmaceuticals) is expected to be slightly lower
(3.0%) in 2025 compared with 2024 (+3.9%). We anticipate weak growth in the advanced economies
following stagnation in the previous year (2025: +0.8%, 2024: +0.1%). Expansion in the emerging
markets is expected to slow slightly (2025: +3.9%, 2024: +5.5%).
In China, which accounts for half of global chemical production, growth is expected to ease slightly from
the high level of the previous year (2025: +4.2%, 2024: +6.8%). While domestic demand for goods is
expected to expand slightly more, growth momentum from foreign trade in the chemicals sector and its
customer industries is likely to be somewhat weaker. Demand from the Chinese automotive industry is
also expected to increase at a slower pace than in 2024.
In the other emerging markets of Asia, we anticipate slightly higher growth in the chemical industry
(2025: +3.5%, 2024: +2.2%). This is primarily due to higher growth in India (+4.5%), while the rest of the
region is expected to grow by around 3%.
Following the catch-up effects of the previous year and the already evident slowdown in the second half
of 2024, we expect a slight decline by 0.3% in the EU. Positive momentum for regional demand should
come primarily from consumer goods industries and the construction industry, although it is only growing
at a weak rate, while demand from the automotive industry is likely to continue to decline.
In the United States, we expect chemical demand to grow slightly (+1.5%) after stagnating in 2024.
Increased demand is expected primarily in the food industry, production of chemicals for care products,
the plastics industry, and information and communications technology. However, the anticipated decline
in automotive production and weak construction demand are likely to dampen growth.
For Japan, we forecast that chemical production will stabilize after the sharp decline in the previous two
years (2025: +0.6%, 2024: -2.9%, 2023: -6.6%). The demand for chemicals is likely to be supported by
the anticipated stabilization in local automotive production and a return to growth in the technology
sector.
In South America, we expect chemical production to grow by slightly more than 2%. While growth in
Brazil is anticipated to slow slightly, Argentina is likely to make a positive contribution amid its
anticipated economic recovery.
Outlook for chemical production (excluding pharmaceuticals) 2025 and 2025–2027
Real change compared with previous year 2025 2025–2027
World 3.0% 3.0%
European Union -0.3% 0.7%
United States 1.5% 1.3%
China 4.2% 4.1%
Emerging markets of Asia excluding China 3.5% 3.7%
Japan 0.6% 0.5%
South America 2.1% 2.2%
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 81
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Outlook 2025
Our forecast for the BASF Group and segments for 2025 is based on the assumption that a moderate
recovery in demand for goods will support the growth in gross domestic product and industrial
production. In particular, the decline in consumer price inflation and the associated increase in real
incomes are expected to boost consumer purchasing power in the United States and Europe. However,
challenges such as increasing geopolitical uncertainty and a further escalation of trade conflicts in
particular, will weigh on business and consumer confidence. Following the decline in automotive
production in 2024, we expect stagnation in 2025. For the global chemical industry, we anticipate slightly
higher growth compared with expectations for gross domestic product and industrial production. Growth
in the chemical industry should result primarily from the anticipated expansion of the sector in China and
other emerging Asian markets. We anticipate an average oil price of $75 for a barrel of Brent crude and
an exchange rate of $1.05 per euro (for more information on the outlook on the economic environment in
2025, see page 78 onward and for opportunities and risks, see page 87 onward).
Earnings and free cash flow forecast for the BASF Group1
Forecast at Group level
Million € 2024 2025 forecast
EBITDA before special items 7,858 €8.0 billion to €8.4 billion
Cash flows from operating activities 6,946 €5.6 billion to €6.0 billion
– Payments made for property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets 6,198 €5.2 billion
Free cash flow 748 €0.4 billion to €0.8 billion
In 2025, the BASF Group’s EBITDA before special items is expected to increase to between €8.0 billion
and €8.4 billion (2024: €7.9 billion). The Materials, Nutrition & Care, Industrial Solutions2 and Surface
Technologies segments2 are likely to contribute to this. For some, this may be primarily attributable to
sales volume growth and, in some cases, also to higher margins. In the standalone business Agricultural
Solutions, we forecast slightly higher volume-related earnings. EBITDA before special items for the
Chemicals segment is expected to decrease slightly compared with 2024. In particular, earnings in the
Petrochemicals division will be impacted by rising fixed costs in connection with the startup of the new
Verbund site in China and scheduled turnarounds. The anticipated considerable earnings growth in the
Intermediates division will only be able to partially offset this.
We forecast the BASF Group’s free cash flow to be between €0.4 billion and €0.8 billion (2024:
€0.7 billion). This is based on expected cash flows from operating activities of between €5.6 billion and
€6.0 billion, minus expected payments made for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in
the amount of €5.2 billion.
CO emissions forecast for the BASF Group
2
CO emissions are expected to be between 16.7 million metric tons and 17.7 million metric tons in 2025
2
(2024: 17.0 million metric tons). We anticipate additional emissions compared with the previous year from
higher forecast production volumes based on rising demand. We will counteract this increase with
targeted measures to reduce emissions, such as increasing energy efficiency and optimizing processes
as well as continuing the shift to electricity from renewable energies through the shareholding in the
Hollandse Kust Zuid offshore wind farm, for example.
1 For EBITDA before special items and cash flow, “slight” represents a change of 0.1% to 10.0%, while “considerable” applies to changes of 10.1% and higher. “At prior-year
level” indicates no change (+/-0.0%).
2 The assumptions for the Industrial Solutions and Surface Technologies segments already take into account the reclassification of the chemical and refining catalysts business
as of January 1, 2025, and are based on correspondingly adjusted figures for 2024.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 82
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Forecast for the segments
Segment overview
Million € EBITDA before special items Segment cash flow
2024 2025 forecast 2024 2025 forecast
Chemicals 1,342 Slight decrease -2,051 Considerable increase
Materials 1,805 Slight increase 766 At prior-year level
Industrial Solutionsa 1,437 Slight increase 1,102 Slight decrease
Nutrition & Care 814 Slight increase -31 Considerable decrease
Surface Technologiesa 1,099 Considerable increase 691 Considerable increase
Agricultural Solutions 1,938 Slight increase 1,861 Considerable decrease
a The forecasts for the Industrial Solutions and Surface Technologies segments already take into account the reclassification of the chemical and refining catalysts business
as of January 1, 2025, and are based on correspondingly adjusted figures for 2024.
In the Chemicals segment, we expect a slight decline in EBITDA before special items in 2025 due to
higher fixed costs in the Petrochemicals division, primarily related to the startup of the new Verbund site
in Zhanjiang, China. Furthermore, a lower earnings contribution from our equity-accounted investment in
Nanjing, China, mainly the consequence of scheduled turnarounds, will burden EBITDA before special
items for the division. The anticipated strong earnings growth in the Intermediates division, primarily due
to higher sales volumes and margins for amines, will only partially offset this. We assume a considerable
improvement in the segment cash flow compared to 2024. We plan to reduce capital expenditures for
Zhanjiang, which could more than offset the impact on earnings and the expected buildup of inventories
in connection with the startup of the new Verbund site in China.
Compared with 2024, we anticipate a slight increase in EBITDA before special items for the Materials
segment. This will be attributable to targeted volume growth coupled with stable margins in the
Performance Materials division. For the Monomers division, we are forecasting earnings at the prior-year
level. While the division also aims to increase volumes, slightly rising fixed costs are expected to
counteract this. We plan to largely offset the higher fixed costs associated with the startup of the HMD
plant in Chalampé, France, and inflation through ongoing efficiency measures and rigorous cost
discipline. Segment cash flow is expected to remain on a level with the previous year. The assumed
considerable increase in cash flow in the Monomers division is expected to offset the anticipated
considerable decline in the Performance Materials division, primarily due to rising capital expenditures
and a higher amount of cash tied up in working capital.
In the Industrial Solutions segment, EBITDA before special items is expected to increase slightly. This is
attributable to the anticipated considerable earnings growth in the Performance Chemicals division,
primarily due to higher volumes. In addition, the division plans to reduce fixed costs through ongoing
restructuring measures. A slight decline in earnings is anticipated for the Dispersions & Resins division
due to continued competitive pressure on margins. The ongoing cost savings program is expected to
offset the division’s inflation-related increase in fixed costs. Segment cash flow is anticipated to be
slightly below the prior-year level. In the Dispersions & Resins division, this will likely be mainly
attributable to lower earnings and higher capital expenditures in the electronic materials business. In the
Performance Chemicals division, higher capital expenditures in the chemical and process catalysts
business are expected to more than offset the positive impact of earnings growth.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 83
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In the Nutrition & Care segment, we anticipate slightly higher EBITDA before special items in 2025,
primarily as a result of increased margins in the Nutrition & Health division. Earnings in the Care
Chemicals division are expected to be on a level with 2024. Segment cash flow is likely to be negative
again in 2025. In the Nutrition & Health division, we anticipate a higher amount of cash to be tied up in
working capital in connection with preparations for the restart of the isophytol plant in Ludwigshafen,
Germany. It is unlikely that the projected considerable improvement in cash flow in the Care Chemicals
division will be able to compensate for this.
For the Surface Technologies segment, we anticipate a mainly volume-related improvement in earnings
across all divisions. Segment cash flow is expected to be considerably above the prior-year level. This is
due to the projected development in the Coatings and Battery Materials divisions. In the Coatings
division, this is expected to be mainly attributable to a reduction in inventories and lower special charges.
In 2024, significant special charges were incurred in connection with the conversion of the ERP system.
The Battery Materials division anticipates an increase in cash flow, particularly due to the forecast
earnings improvement and significantly reduced capital expenditures. In the ECMS division, we
anticipate considerably lower cash flow due to expected reduced positive effects from working capital
compared with the previous year.
In the Agricultural Solutions segment, we expect EBITDA before special items in 2025 to be slightly
above the level of 2024. Higher sales volumes due to gradual normalization of channel inventories are
expected to more than offset the inflation-related rise in fixed costs. In addition, we expect to see an
improvement in the glufosinate-ammonium business compared with 2024. We expect segment cash flow
to decline considerably compared with 2024, primarily due to lower positive contributions from
inventories.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 84
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Capital expenditures (capex)
In 2025, the BASF Group is planning capital expenditures of around €5.0 billion (additions to property,
plant and equipment excluding acquisitions, IT investments, restoration obligations and right-of-use
assets arising from leases). For the four-year period from 2025 to 2028, we are planning capital
expenditures totaling €16.2 billion, including around €3.0 billion for the new Verbund site in China. The
investment volume in the next four years will thus be considerably below that of the planning period 2024
to 2027 (€19.5 billion).
Projects currently being planned or underway include:
Capex: selected projects
Location Project
Geismar, Louisiana Capacity expansion at MDI plants
Ludwigshafen, Germany Modernization of chloroformates and acid chlorides plant
Zhanjiang, China Construction of an integrated Verbund site
Capex by segment 2025–2028
Capex by region 2025–2028
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 85
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Dividend
As part of its new strategy, BASF continues to offer its shareholders an attractive dividend yield. In the
medium term, we are committed to keeping the overall distribution to shareholders at least at prior-year
levels through a combination of dividends and share buybacks. We have set ourselves the target of
distributing at least €12 billion to shareholders from 2025 to 2028. Specifically, we strive to pay out a
dividend of at least €2.25 per share annually or distribute around €2 billion per year to our shareholders.
The proposed dividend3 for the 2024 business year is consequently €2.25 per share.
Financing
In 2025, we expect cash outflows in the equivalent amount of around €1.7 billion from the scheduled
repayment of bonds. To refinance maturing bonds and to optimize our maturity profile, we continue to
have medium- to long-term corporate bonds and our global commercial paper program at our disposal
(for more information, see page 56).
Events after the reporting period
On February 17, 2025, BASF announced the sale of the Brazilian decorative paints business, which is
part of BASF’s Coatings division, to Sherwin-Williams, Cleveland, Ohio. The purchase price on a cash-
and debt-free basis is $1.15 billion. The transaction is structured as a share deal and includes the
production sites in Demarchi and Jaboatão, related contracts, the Suvinil and Glasu! brands, and around
1,000 employees. The decorative paints business generated sales of approximately €485 million in 2024
and operates almost exclusively in Brazil. The divestiture is expected to close in the second half of 2025,
subject to the approval of the relevant authorities.
3 Dividend proposed to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 86
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Opportunities and Risks
The goal of BASF’s risk management is to identify and evaluate
opportunities and risks as early as possible and to take appropriate
measures to seize opportunities and limit risks. The aim is to avoid risks
that pose a threat to BASF’s continued existence and to make improved
managerial decisions to create value. We understand opportunities and
risks to be any event that can positively or negatively impact the
achievement of our short-, medium- or long-term goals.1
Where appropriate, we measure and manage opportunities and risks in terms of probability of
occurrence and economic impact in the event they occur. Where possible, we use statistical methods to
aggregate opportunities and risks into risk categories. In addition, we use a qualitative evaluation scale
for opportunities and risks to assess both business and sustainability-related aspects that cannot be
quantified. In this way, we achieve an integrated overall view, allowing us to prioritize economic and
sustainability-related opportunities and risks at Group level by the highest economic impact or qualitative
evaluation and probability as well as to take effective risk management measures.
Overall assessment
For 2025, we anticipate similar global economic growth as in 2024, albeit with slightly weaker growth on
the chemicals market. General macroeconomic uncertainty will remain high.
A further escalation of current geopolitical conflicts could lead to disruptions in global supply chains and
greater restrictions on the supply of energy, industrial raw materials and intermediates. The wars in
Ukraine and the Middle East continue to pose significant risks for market development and the supply of
raw materials.
There is also the risk of increases in U.S. tariffs and of backlashes among its trading partners. Higher
inflation and interest rates could hamper demand. Due to our strategy of producing locally for the
respective markets, the introduction of tariffs may also result in opportunities for the BASF Group. As
uncertainties and volatilities are currently high, neither opportunities nor risks can be assessed yet.
Additional opportunities may arise in particular from stronger economic growth resulting from better
macroeconomic development than assumed. Furthermore, material opportunities and risks for our
earnings arise from margin volatility. Our assessment of opportunities and risks arising from the volatility
of margins and currencies is based on forward-looking market-related assumptions in order to reflect the
specific expectations of the market.
According to our assessment, there continue to be no significant individual risks that pose a threat to the
continued existence of BASF SE or the BASF Group. The same applies to the sum of all risks (for more
information, see page 147 onward).
Ultimately, residual risks (net risks) remain in all entrepreneurial activities that cannot be ruled out, even
by comprehensive risk management.
1 At the beginning of the one-year assessment period, the targets correspond to the forecasts.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 87
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Potential short-term effects on EBITDA of key opportunity and risk factors subsequent to measures
takena
Outlook
Possible variations related to: – 2025 +
Business environment and sector
Market growth
Margins
Competition
Regulation/policy
Company-specific opportunities and risks
Procurement
Supply chain
Investments/production
Personnel
Information technology
Compliance/legal
Tax
Financial
Exchange rate volatility
Other financial opportunities and risks
>€0 million <€100 million
≥€100 million <€500 million
≥€500 million <€1,000 million
≥€1,000 million <€1,500 million
≥€1,500 million <€2,000 million
a Using a 95% confidence interval per risk factor based on planned values; summation is not permissible.
Risk management process and internal control system
ESRS 2 GOV-5
The BASF Group’s risk management process is based on the international risk management standard
COSO II Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated Framework and comprises the risk management
system, the internal control system and compliance management and has the following key features:
Organization and responsibilities
– Risk management and the internal control system are the responsibility of the Board of Executive
Directors. It defines the basic requirements and processes as well as the organization of the risk
management system. It also determines the processes for approving investments, acquisitions and
divestitures.
– The Board of Executive Directors is supported by the Corporate Center. The Corporate Center units
Corporate Finance, which reports to the Chief Financial Officer, and Corporate Development, which
reports to the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors, and the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO)
coordinate the risk management process at Group level. This involves examining economic and
sustainability-related opportunities and risks and providing structures as well as appropriate
methodologies. Opportunity and risk management is thus integrated into the strategy, planning and
budgeting processes.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 88
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– BASF’s risk committee reviews the BASF Group’s risk portfolio at least twice a year to evaluate any
adjustments to risk management measures and informs the Board of Executive Directors of these.
Members of the risk committee are the president of Corporate Finance (chair), the president of
Corporate Development, the president of Corporate Legal, Compliance & Insurance and the heads of
the Corporate Audit, Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality, Corporate
Treasury, and Group Reporting & Performance Management departments.
– The management and control of specific opportunities and risks is largely delegated to the divisions,
the service and research units and the regions,2 and is steered at a decentralized level. This also
applies to sustainability-related topics relevant to BASF in accordance with ESRS, such as the impact
of climate change on BASF. A network of risk managers in the operating divisions, in the service and
research units as well as in the regions advances the implementation of appropriate risk management
practices in daily operations. Financial risks are an exception. The management of liquidity, currency
and interest rate risks is conducted in the Corporate Finance unit. The management of commodity
price risks takes place in the Global Procurement unit or in authorized Group companies. As part of
the new strategy, the management of opportunities and risks at regional level is being reorganized in
2025.
– In order to ensure the efficacy of risk management in the operating divisions as well as in the service
and research units, Corporate Finance performs integrated checks within risk reporting and also
regularly reviews compliance with internal risk management guidelines. The BASF Group’s
management is informed of short-term operational opportunities and risks that fall within an
observation period of up to one year in the monthly Management’s Report produced by Corporate
Finance. In addition, Corporate Finance provides information twice a year on the aggregated
opportunity/risk exposure of the BASF Group, including information about risk management measures
and the corresponding residual net risks. Furthermore, any arising individual risks with a probability of
occurrence of at least 10% that have an impact of more than €10 million on earnings or any risks
qualitatively evaluated to have a material impact on our sustainability targets as well as on our
reputation must be internally reported immediately. The Supervisory Board is informed annually about
short-term operational opportunities and risks. The Audit Committee also deals with the internal
control system and the risk management system as well as their further development.
– As part of strategy development, the Corporate Development unit conducts strategic opportunity/risk
analyses with a five-year medium-term assessment period. These analyses are annually reviewed as
part of strategic controlling and are adapted if necessary. Scenarios are also developed to map
possible impacts beyond the five-year horizon from a long-term perspective, for example from
climate-related developments. The Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board are informed
annually about strategic opportunities and risks.
– We also regularly consider exceptional situations that can have a fundamental impact at global,
regional and local level – from process safety incidents and goods spillages to pandemics and
cyberattacks. In addition, there is a crisis management organization that proactively draws up crisis
plans where necessary and appropriate and which is activated in the event of a sudden crisis (for more
information, please see page 270 onward).
2 As part of the new strategy, the regional structures are being dissolved and the management of opportunities and risks at regional level is being reorganized in 2025.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 89
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) manages the implementation of our Compliance Management
System, supported by compliance officers worldwide. The CCO reports regularly to the Board of
Executive Directors on the status of implementation as well as on any significant results and provides
a status report to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee at least once a year, including any major
developments. The Board of Executive Directors immediately informs the Audit Committee about
significant incidents (for more information on compliance, see page 317 onward).
Organization of the BASF Group’s risk management
a The Corporate Audit unit is part of the Corporate Center.
b The Chief Compliance Officer is the head of the Corporate Legal, Compliance & Insurance unit.
c The activities of the Net Zero Accelerator unit were transferred to existing units and divisions, effective January 1, 2025.
d As part of the new strategy, the regional structures are being dissolved and the management of opportunities and risks at regional level will be reorganized in 2025.
– Risk-specific monitoring and control systems, some of which are decentralized, have been set up for
each area identified in the risk portfolio. The results of the monitoring processes are incorporated into
regular risk reporting to the risk committee and the Board of Executive Directors. Compared with
internal control systems in financial reporting, these monitoring and control systems in other subject
areas have a lower degree of formalization. As a rule, however, they also include organizational
security precautions such as compliance with the basic principles of transparency, dual control,
segregation of duties and least privilege, deployment of sufficiently qualified employees and adequate
IT systems. The design of internal controls depends on the subject area. It ranges from monitoring the
development of specific key indicators and evaluating internal and external reports or benchmarking
analyses to formalized committee meetings in which decisions are made on applications for
investments or research projects, for example. In addition, the appropriateness and effectiveness of
the topic-specific internal control systems is monitored by the Corporate Center units responsible for
the respective topics. To this end, the individual Corporate Center units choose different approaches
depending on the subject area, such as the evaluation of questionnaires for self-assessment of the
effectiveness of the internal control system, sample tests to validate the implementation and
effectiveness of internal controls or the monitoring of compliance-related key indicators.
– The Corporate Audit department is responsible for regularly auditing the effectiveness and
appropriateness of the risk management system, internal control system and the compliance
management system.
– In addition, the Audit Committee addresses the effectiveness and appropriateness of these systems
as part of its monitoring activities. The suitability of the early risk detection system set up by the Board
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 90
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
of Executive Directors in accordance with section 91(2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) is
assessed and evaluated by the auditors.
Tools
– The Governance, Risk Management, Compliance (GRC) Policy, applicable throughout the Group,
forms the framework for risk management and is implemented by the operating divisions, the service
and research units and the regions according to their specific business conditions.
– A catalog of opportunity and risk categories helps identify all relevant economic and sustainability-
related opportunities and risks relating to our targets as comprehensively as possible. We derive the
sustainability-related opportunities and risks from the double materiality analysis, in accordance with
ESRS requirements.
– The positive contributions and negative impacts of our business activities on sustainability topics
along the value chain, and the impact of sustainability topics on our business, are assessed in a
materiality analysis. Opportunities and risks for our business activities that could arise from material
sustainability topics, or for sustainability topics that could arise from our business activities, can only
rarely be measured in specific financial terms and mainly have a medium- to long-term impact.
Relevant sustainability topics are systematically considered in our strategic and operational risk
management through our integrated risk catalog. The results are presented in the respective chapters
(for more information, see page 167 onward).
– We also systematically assess opportunities and risks with effects that cannot yet be measured in
monetary terms, such as climate and reputational risks. To reflect these, risks for companies in
connection with the transition to a low-emission economy (transition risks) as well as physical risks as
defined by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), among others, were added
to this catalog.
– Because global climate policy ambitions and the implementation of the relevant measures play a
decisive role in the ongoing growth of the chemical industry and its customer industries, we defined
and quantified global long-term scenarios (up to 2050) with various global warming paths. To assess
the impact of different global climate policy approaches on our business units, the scenarios were
discussed with the business units in workshops. The feedback was incorporated into the ongoing
development of the scenarios. A dataset of scenario-specific macroeconomic parameters is provided
to test the economic feasibility of investments and business strategies. We use the results of the
double materiality analysis to document reportable sustainability risks within the meaning of section
289b et seq. of the German Commercial Code. No reportable residual net risks within the meaning of
section 289b et seq. of the German Commercial Code were identified for 2024 (for more information,
see page 150 onward).
– We use standardized evaluation and reporting tools for the identification and assessment of risks. The
aggregation of opportunities, risks and sensitivities at division and Group level using a Monte Carlo
simulation helps us to identify effects and trends across the Group. We base our sensitivities to oil and
gas prices and currency developments on forward-looking assumptions in order to reflect specific
market expectations and improve the quality of our forecasts. We also aggregate qualitatively
assessed risks at Group level using a risk portfolio.
– Our Group-wide Compliance Program aims to ensure adherence to legal regulations and the
company’s internal guidelines. Our global employee Code of Conduct firmly embeds these mandatory
standards into everyday business. Members of the Board of Executive Directors are also expressly
obligated to follow these principles (for more information, see page 317 onward).
– 〈Based on the reviews and findings of the risk management process, the Board of Executive Directors
has no indication that BASF’s risk management system and the internal control system are not
adequate or effective in all material respects.〉
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 91
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Significant features of the internal control and risk management system with
regard to the Group financial reporting process
The Combined Management’s Report and the Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared by a unit
in the Corporate Finance department. The Consolidated Financial Statements are derived from the
separate financial statements of the subsidiaries and joint operations, taking into account the relevant
data for the joint ventures and associated companies accounted for using the equity method. The
BASF Group’s accounting process is based on a uniform accounting guideline that, alongside
accounting policies based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS®) applicable in the
European Union, defines the significant processes and deadlines for the Group. There are binding
directives for the internal reconciliations and other accounting operations within the Group. Standard
software is used to carry out the accounting processes for the preparation of the individual financial
statements as well as for the Consolidated Financial Statements. There are clear rules for the access
rights of each participant in these processes.
Employees involved in the accounting and reporting process meet the qualitative requirements and
participate in training on a regular basis. There is a clear assignment of responsibilities between the
specialist units, companies and service units involved. We strictly adhere to the principles of segregation
of duties and dual control, or the “four-eyes principle.” Complex actuarial reports and evaluations are
produced by specialized service providers or specially qualified employees.
An internal control system for financial reporting continuously monitors these principles. To this end,
methods are provided to ensure that evaluation of the internal control system in financial reporting is
structured and uniform across the BASF Group. These are based on the international standard
COSO I Internal Controls – Integrated Framework, which forms an integral part of the international risk
management standard COSO II Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated Framework.
Material risks for the BASF Group regarding a reliable control environment for proper financial reporting
are reviewed and updated on an annual basis. Risks are compiled into a central risk catalog.
Moreover, a centralized selection process identifies companies that are exposed to particular risks, that
are material to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the BASF Group, or that provide service
processes. The selection process is conducted annually. Persons responsible for implementing the
requirements for an effective control system in financial reporting are appointed at the relevant
companies.
The process for identifying, evaluating, managing and controlling risks related to preparing the
Consolidated Financial Statements as well as the monitoring of these processes in the selected
companies comprise the following steps:
– Evaluation of the control environment
Adherence to internal and external guidelines that are relevant to the maintenance of a reliable control
environment for financial reporting is checked by means of a standardized questionnaire.
– Identification and documentation of control activities
In order to mitigate the risks to the financial reporting processes listed in our central risk catalog,
critical processes and control activities are documented.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 92
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– Assessment of control activities
After documentation, a review is performed to verify whether the described controls are capable of
adequately covering the risks. In the subsequent test phase, spot checks are carried out to test
whether, in practice, the controls were executed as described and were effective.
– Monitoring of control weaknesses
The responsible leaders receive reports on any control weaknesses identified and their resolution, and
an interdisciplinary committee investigates their relevance to the BASF Group. The Board of Executive
Directors and the Audit Committee are informed if control weaknesses with a considerable impact on
financial reporting are identified. Only after material control weaknesses have been resolved does the
company’s managing director confirm the effectiveness of the internal control system.
– Internal confirmation of the internal control system
All managing directors and chief financial officers of each consolidated Group company must confirm
to the Board of Executive Directors of BASF SE every half-year and at the end of the annual cycle, in
writing, that the internal control system is effective with regard to accounting and reporting.
Operational opportunities and risks
Market growth
Opportunities and risks arise from the development of our sales markets. For more details on our
assumptions regarding short-term growth rates for the global economy, regions and key customer
industries, such as the chemicals, automotive and construction sectors, see Economic Environment in
2025 from page 78 onward.
We also consider opportunities and risks caused by deviations in assumptions. Macroeconomic
opportunities arise from an easing of geopolitical conflicts and the resulting increase in the supply of
energy, industrial raw materials and other intermediate goods.
Increases in energy prices caused, for example, by the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, and the
higher inflation rates resulting from this for manufacturer and consumer prices pose a risk to the
economy. Additional macroeconomic risks result from the escalation of geopolitical conflicts and a
further intensification of global trade conflicts, especially between the United States and its trading
partners. We constantly monitor these risks and mitigate them as far as possible through our diversified
customer and product portfolio.
Weather-related influences can result in positive or negative effects on our business, particularly in the
Agricultural Solutions segment.
Compared with the previous year, we see lower market growth opportunities.
Margins
The greatest opportunities and risks for the BASF Group primarily result from higher or lower margins in
all segments, particularly the Chemicals and Agricultural Solutions segments. Further declining margins
for a number of products and value chains could increase pressure on margins. Additional shortages of
raw materials could have both a negative and positive impact on margins. This would have a
corresponding effect on our EBITDA. We counter margin risks with ongoing cost and price management
as well as process optimization.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 93
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The year’s average oil price for Brent crude was $81 per barrel in 2024, compared with $82 per barrel in
the previous year. For 2025, we anticipate an average oil price of $75 per barrel.
Compared with the previous year, we see higher margin opportunities.
Competition
We continuously enhance our products and solutions in order to remain competitive. The market entry of
new competitors and increased price pressure may lead to lower margins and volumes, particularly in the
Agricultural Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments. We counter these risks through our margin
management and other measures, such as the targeted promotion of innovations, for example in the area
of sustainability.
Compared with the previous year, we see lower competitive risks.
Regulation/policy
Risks for us can arise from intensified geopolitical tensions, new trade sanctions, a lack of global
coordination for stricter emission limits for production plants and stricter energy and chemicals
legislation as well as a lack of acceptance of new technologies in the EU. Furthermore, risks can also
arise from regulatory delays in the expansion of capacities and infrastructure for electricity from
renewable sources, the necessary CO infrastructure and delayed product approvals.
2
However, political measures could also give rise to opportunities. For example, we view opportunities
around the world to increase energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions as a strategic
opportunity for increased demand for products such as our insulation foams for buildings, catalysts,
battery materials for electromobility, or our solutions for wind turbines. For more information on these
measures, such as meetings with political decision-makers and social stakeholders, see page 150
onward.
Procurement and supply chain
Operational risks in procurement are a key topic for BASF, as they can impact the company’s supply
capability and therefore its competitiveness. Operational risks in procurement include disruptions and
delays in the delivery of raw materials due to supplier insolvencies, quality concerns, extreme weather or
geopolitical events, for example. To counter these risks, BASF relies on comprehensive risk assessment
and control along the entire supply chain, global diversification and close cooperation with suppliers (for
more information, see page 292 onward).
Investments/production
We try to prevent unscheduled plant shutdowns by adhering to high technical standards and by
continuously improving our plants. We reduce the effects of an unscheduled shutdown on the supply of
intermediate and end products through diversification within our global Production Verbund.
In the event of a production outage – caused by an accident, for example – our global, regional or local
emergency response plans and crisis management structures are engaged, depending on the scope of
impact. Crisis management teams at country level not only coordinate the necessary emergency
response measures, they also initiate immediate measures for damage control and resumption of normal
operations as quickly as possible.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 94
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Crisis management also includes dealing with extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes (for
example, at the sites in Freeport, Texas, and Geismar, Louisiana) or significantly elevated water
temperatures in rivers due to extended heat waves, which limit the available cooling capacity.
Appropriate precautions are taken at the sites in the case of a change in risk associated with climate
change. For example, due to an increase in heat waves, we have implemented several measures at the
Verbund sites in Ludwigshafen, Germany, and Geismar in recent years to increase cooling capacity, such
as expanding and optimizing the central recooling plants and optimizing cooling water flows. These
optimization measures are designed to prevent production outages due to extreme heat waves.
Short-term risks from investments can result from, for example, technical malfunctions or schedule and
budget overruns. We counter these risks with stringent project management and controlling.
Personnel
Due to BASF’s worldwide compensation principles, the development of personnel expenses is partly
dependent on the amount of variable compensation, which is linked to the company’s success, among
other factors. The correlation between variable compensation and the success of the company has the
effect of minimizing risk. Another factor is the development of interest rates for discounting pension
obligations. Furthermore, changes to the legal environment of a particular country can have an impact on
the development of personnel expenses for the BASF Group. For countries in which BASF is active, we
therefore constantly monitor the relevant developments in order to identify potential risks at an early
stage and enable suitable measures to be taken (for more information, see pages 93 and 270 onward).
Information technology
BASF employs a large number of IT systems. We use technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data
and the Internet of Things to develop new business models, corporate concepts and strategies and to
respond appropriately to changing customer behavior. The global cybersecurity team is tasked with
protecting these IT systems and the data and business processes they handle. In a connected, ever-
evolving world, the challenge of protecting BASF against attackers is becoming increasingly difficult.
The threat environment has changed in recent years, as attackers have become better organized, use
more sophisticated technology and have far more resources available. This development reflects the fact
that a variety of vulnerabilities in software and hardware products constantly provide new incentives to
develop malware, and anonymization technologies make it almost impossible to trace and punish
attacks.
A successful attack can, for example, negatively affect asset reliability, delivery quality or the accuracy of
our financial reporting. Unauthorized access to sensitive data, such as personnel records or customer
data, competition-related information or research results, can result in consequences under liability law
or jeopardize our competitive position. This could also cause monetary losses, a potential loss of
reputation or even a loss of customers’ and partners’ confidence in the security of our products and
services.
To minimize such risks, BASF uses globally uniform processes and systems to ensure IT availability and
IT security, which are based on the recognized ISO 27001 standard. These include stable and
redundantly designed IT systems, backup processes, virus and access protection, encryption systems,
and integrated and standardized IT infrastructure, applications and processes. The systems used for
information security are constantly tested, continuously updated, and expanded if necessary. In addition,
our employees receive regular training on information and data protection. Cybersecurity-related risk
management is conducted using Group-wide regulations for organization and application, as well as an
internal control system based on these regulations.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 95
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our modern protection concepts range from efficient detection and professional response to defense
against attacks and minimizing their potential impact. Strong cybersecurity alliances are also crucial here.
BASF works closely with security authorities and associations, for example as a founding member of the
German Cyber Security Organization (DCSO) and the Cyber Security Sharing and Analytics (CSSA)
platform in Berlin, Germany. BASF has also established an information security management system and
is internationally certified according to DIN EN ISO/IEC 27001:2017.
With respect to the outlook for the 2025 business year, short-term opportunities or risks have been
identified but possible impacts on EBITDA have not been quantified.
Compliance/legal
We constantly monitor current and potential legal disputes and proceedings, and regularly report on
these to the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board. In order to assess the risks from
current legal disputes and proceedings and any potential need to recognize provisions, we prepare our
own analyses and assessments of the circumstances and claims considered. In addition, in individual
cases, we consider the results of comparable proceedings and, if needed, independent legal opinions.
Risk assessment is particularly based on estimates as to the probability of occurrence and the range of
possible claims. These estimates are the result of close cooperation between the relevant operating and
service units together with Corporate Legal and Corporate Finance. If sufficient probability of occurrence
is identified, we recognize a provision for the proceeding concerned. Should a provision be unnecessary,
we continue to assess whether these litigations nevertheless represent a risk for the BASF Group’s
EBITDA as part of general risk management (for more information, see page 411 onward).
We use our internal control system to limit risks from potential infringements of rights or laws. For
example, we try to avoid patent and licensing disputes whenever possible through extensive clearance
research. As part of our Group-wide Compliance Program, our employees receive regular training.
Tax
The recognized tax-related opportunities and risks only concern taxes that impact the BASF Group’s
EBITDA in the short term. These arise when BASF has taken a position that differs from the opinion of a
competent administrative authority. If a tax payment has already been made and could be reclaimed, we
present this as an opportunity. Conversely, if a potential payment is outstanding in accordance with the
administrative opinion, this is a risk. We primarily evaluate opportunities and risks with regard to their
probability of occurrence and, if necessary, set up a provision for the relevant risk. If a provision is not
necessary, we take this into account in determining EBITDA-relevant risks for the BASF Group.
Exchange rate volatility
Our competitiveness on global markets is influenced by fluctuations in exchange rates. For BASF’s sales,
opportunities and risks arise in particular when the U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates. On the
production side, we counter exchange rate risks by producing in the respective currency zones.
Financial currency risks result from the translation of receivables, liabilities and other monetary items in
accordance with IAS 21 at the closing rate into the functional currency of the respective Group company.
If necessary, we hedge these risks using derivative instruments.
Based on market expectations, we see greater currency risks due to greater volatility in the U.S. dollar
exchange rate compared with the previous year.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 96
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Other financial opportunities and risks
Financial risks arise from unplanned cost increases, for example due to higher inflation than assumed. In
connection with the war in Ukraine, further financial risks arise from potential asset losses.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 97
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Strategic opportunities and risks
Long-term demand development
We assume that growth in chemical production (excluding pharmaceuticals) will be slightly higher than
that of global gross domestic product in the coming years. With our market-oriented and broad portfolio,
which we will continue to strengthen in the years ahead, through investments in new production
capacities, through our research and development activities and through targeted acquisitions,
particularly in the core businesses, we want to participate in this market growth. Should global economic
growth see unexpected, considerable deceleration, for example, because of an ongoing weak period in
individual emerging markets, protectionist tendencies or bottlenecks in the energy markets, the expected
growth rates could prove too ambitious.
Additional risks arise from geopolitical tensions and outright military conflicts, which could impact supply
chains and reduce efficiency in the international allocation of resources. Moreover, the ambitions of
global climate policy and its implementation will significantly impact the structure of demand from our
customer industries. This is shown by a comparison of climate policy scenarios that envisage limiting
global warming to below two degrees Celsius with alternative scenarios that allow for more warming. In
ambitious climate policy scenarios, the structure of demand changes due to the use of alternative energy
sources and raw materials, high investment in resource-conserving technologies, and changing customer
preferences. By contrast, macroeconomic growth rates typically vary little compared with scenarios with
pathways with higher levels of warming.
Market opportunities in ambitious climate policy scenarios include, for example, alternative surface
coatings for wind and solar modules, feedstocks that make plastics easier to recycle, stronger demand
for insulation materials for buildings, increased electromobility with changed demand for plastics,
insulation materials, coolants and battery materials, and more alternative proteins in agriculture. By
contrast, fossil feedstocks and the production technologies and product segments based on fossil
feedstocks will become less important. This requires further decarbonization of production processes
and alternative sources of raw materials, as well as a corresponding willingness to pay on the part of
customer industries, in order to remain competitive (for more information on the corporate strategy, see
page 18 onward).
Development of competitive and customer landscape
We expect competitors from Asia, North America and the Middle East in particular to gain increasing
significance in the years ahead, especially as a result of advantageous raw materials and energy prices.
Furthermore, we predict that many producers in countries rich in raw materials will expand their value
chains in specialty chemicals and consumer chemicals. In addition, the proliferation of large-scale digital
marketplaces for chemicals could impact existing customer and supplier relationships.
We expect a rise in customer demand for more sustainable solutions – for example, for products with a
lower carbon footprint, made from recycled, circular or bio-based raw materials that are biodegradable,
or for products with other measurable sustainability benefits. However, an increase in customer demand
for sustainable solutions is also highly dependent on regulation that leads to a growing willingness to pay
for low-emission solutions. Companies with a proven track record of providing more sustainable
solutions will then be able to achieve stronger growth and higher profitability. We are therefore
addressing these topics in research and investment programs for the sustainable transformation of
BASF.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 98
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
To strengthen our competitiveness, we are continuously improving our production processes,
streamlining our structures, simplifying procedures and optimizing our business portfolio. In this regard,
our focus is on attractive businesses and differentiation through sustainability advantages, among other
things, to make our customers and BASF more successful.
Regulation/policy
We expect continued regulatory and societal pressure to achieve environmentally friendly energy
production, emission-free energy consumption, a climate-neutral resource and raw material base, and
far-reaching environmental targets. This also includes regulations in respect of environmental protection,
water and biodiversity, which are addressed in detail in the chapters E2 Pollution Prevention, E3 Water,
and E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems in this report (for more information, see page 205 onward). The
political approaches to address these issues will vary greatly from region to region. However, particularly
in Europe, we expect measures with a continuously high level of detailed and complex regulation,
including changes to chemical and industry-related regulations that have the potential to significantly
impact the competitiveness of BASF’s operations and product portfolio as well as those of our
customers. Another overarching risk is that political decision-makers, particularly in the EU, may not act
quickly and decisively enough to create the necessary framework conditions for a successful location for
industry.
We see the risk of the current geopolitical shifts potentially leading to the establishment of uncoordinated
or divergent global legislative standards and regulatory systems, not just in relation to chemicals or the
regulatory framework for digitalization, but also to climate, environmental, social and corporate
governance criteria. We see risks but also opportunities in the setting of international standards for
specific product categories or technologies.
We explain our strategy in meetings with political decision-makers and social stakeholders. In doing so,
we also inform ourselves of the changes we must undergo and advocate for a favorable and stable
regulatory framework at both a national and international level. BASF is in a position to make significant
contributions toward achieving the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, particularly regarding climate
neutrality, through new technologies, innovative products and processes and a broad product portfolio.
Innovation
We expect the trend toward increased sustainability requirements in our customer industries to continue.
Our aim is to leverage the resulting opportunities in a growing market with more sustainable innovations.
The key areas are products with a lower or even net-zero carbon footprint, circular economy solutions,
and safe and sustainable products. To be successful in these fields, we have launched specific research
and investment programs for the sustainable transformation of BASF. Furthermore, in order to steer our
innovation portfolio toward increased sustainability, we also began applying our TripleS method to the
evaluation of innovation projects and have integrated it into our research and development processes.
There are technical and commercial risks of failure associated with every single research and
development project. We address this by maintaining a balanced and comprehensive project portfolio as
well as through professional, milestone-based project management.
Further risks may arise from increasing state protectionism and demands for localization of intellectual
property in order to achieve technological independence. Through our global Know-How Verbund in
research and development, we ensure that intellectual property is generated and protected in countries
with high intellectual property standards. We expect that the digital disruption of established processes
will lead to a considerable increase in efficiency and effectiveness in some fields through the use of
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 99
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
artificial intelligence, among other things. BASF is therefore committed to taking a leading role in the
digital transformation of the chemical industry. Possible applications of digital technologies and solutions
are evaluated along the entire value chain and implemented throughout the company, for example, in
production, logistics, research and development, business models and corporate governance (for more
information, see page 37 onward).
Procurement and supply chain
Strategic risks in procurement are of great importance to BASF, as they can impact the company’s long-
term competitiveness and positioning. Strategic risks include structural changes on the global markets,
climate change and political developments. Supply security for raw materials, energy and services is
increasingly affected by trade disputes, protectionism, sanctions and geopolitical conflicts. To counter
these risks, BASF relies on comprehensive risk assessment, a diversified supplier base, close
cooperation with various strategic suppliers and continuous analysis of markets and trends.
We are also seeing an expansion of the regulatory framework affecting us and our suppliers (for example,
the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act, the EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive and
the EU Regulation on Deforestation-Free Products). Potential noncompliance by our suppliers may lead
to a reduced supplier base. All risks are continuously analyzed and appropriate strategies and measures
developed to avert risks or minimize their impact on BASF (for more information see page 292 onward).
Investments
We expect growth in chemical production in emerging markets to remain above the global average in the
years to come. This will create opportunities that we want to exploit by focusing our investments more
closely on growth markets and expanding our local presence. In addition, regional value chains help
mitigate risks from trade conflicts and barriers that pose a challenge to global markets and supply
chains.
Decisions on the type, scope and location of our investment projects are made on the basis of
established comprehensive assessment processes. They take into account long-term forecasts for the
market, margin and cost development, and raw materials availability, as well as country, currency,
sustainability and technology risks. Opportunities and risks arise from potential deviations in actual
developments from our assumptions. Mitigation plans are in place where risks are substantial.
Investments in more sustainable technologies, switching our production to renewable energy sources
and harnessing potential energy savings represent a long-term opportunity, even though they may not
yet be profitable in the short term, depending on the market and the prevailing regulatory framework (for
more on our investment projects, see page 85). The transformation of our company toward low-emission
chemistry is presented in detail in the E1 Climate Change chapter.
Acquisitions/divestitures
We want to expand and refine our portfolio through value-adding acquisitions, especially in our core
businesses. We will expand our regional presence in growth markets in a targeted manner and support
our green transformation through sustainable business models.
The evaluation of opportunities and risks plays a significant role during the assessment of acquisition
targets. A detailed analysis and quantification is conducted as part of due diligence. Examples of risks
include increased staff turnover, delayed realization of synergies, or the assumption of obligations that
were not precisely quantifiable in advance. Opportunities could also arise, for example, from additional
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 100
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
synergies. We are also continuing to develop our portfolio through carve-outs and divestitures. In this
context, risks could arise as a result of potential warranty claims or other contractual obligations, such as
long-term supply agreements (for more information, see page 36).
Personnel
BASF anticipates growing challenges in attracting and retaining qualified employees and leaders in the
medium and long term. In combination with evolving competence profiles and demographic change, this
may result in losing skills and knowledge within our own workforce or not being able to develop them
either sufficiently or at all. The macroeconomic situation, combined with structural adjustments at BASF,
may unsettle employees and pose challenges in terms of employee retention and engagement. We are
taking measures to attract qualified personnel and to maintain and improve the skills and knowledge
required by our employees, and regularly assess employee engagement by means of our employee
survey (for more information, see page 270 onward).
Climate
As BASF is an energy-intensive company, climate-related risks arise in a physical sense and from
regulatory changes, such as in CO prices through emissions trading systems, taxes or energy
2
legislation. In addition, BASF’s emissions footprint and intensity could lead to a negative perception and
reduced appeal among external stakeholders such as customers, investors and skilled workers. We
counter these risks with our carbon management measures and by transparently disclosing our positions
on climate protection and progress in the implementation of our climate strategy, in publicly accessible
sources such as this annual report or on the BASF website, and in direct dialog with political decision-
makers and external stakeholders (for more information, see page 94).
To assess the changing physical risks for our sites from climate change, BASF compiles climate data
based on the latest scenarios of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in cooperation
with an external partner. This comprehensive analysis enables sites to assess their potential physical
impact from climate change in the coming decades, with the focus on a scenario representing a
significant degree of global warming in addition to a climate protection scenario. The analysis centers on
the current situation and long-term projections (30 years), whereas the midterm analysis is only used as a
supplementary source of information where potential long-term materiality is identified.
Based on these analyses, we anticipate that most sites will be particularly affected by increasing heat
and drought, whereas some may be faced with heavy precipitation and a few could also be exposed to
risks in connection with flooding, hail, water stress and forest fires. The information gained from this
analysis helps our sites to prepare their strategies, which include maintaining wide-ranging insurance
coverage to mitigate the majority of risks and instituting a variety of adaptation measures. These include
process optimization, investing in assets and infrastructure, and monitoring and updating occupational
healthcare measures to minimize risks in the short, medium and long term.
In 2024, a specific analysis of physical climate risks was carried out at selected sites. It is planned to roll
out this assessment approach to all key BASF sites in the coming years and, on this basis, bolstering our
resilience to climate-related challenges (for more information, see page 178 onward).
Alongside climate-related risks, opportunities also arise for our sustainable products for climate
protection. Our broad product portfolio includes, among other things, solutions for the circular economy
and climate protection, such as insulation materials for buildings, materials for electromobility and bio-
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 101
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
based products. Increased societal demands and the resulting regulations offer additional market
opportunities for these products. We are working with numerous scientific and public organizations and
initiatives on solutions for sustainable agriculture that meet economic, environmental and social demands
over the long term (for more information, see page 150).
»For more information on our positions on and contributions to climate protection, see basf.com/climate_protection
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 102
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Disclosures on BASF SE in Accordance with the German Commercial
Code (HGB)
The Management’s Report of BASF SE is combined with the
Management’s Report of the BASF Group. As the publicly listed parent
company in the BASF Group, BASF SE takes a central position: Directly
or indirectly, it holds the shares in the companies belonging to the
BASF Group and is also one of the largest operating companies. A
complete overview of BASF SE’s operating business is provided by the
Consolidated Financial Statements of the BASF Group.
Corporate Structure
BASF SE operates the BASF Group’s largest Verbund site in Ludwigshafen, Germany, and is therefore
one the most important operating companies of the BASF Group. In addition to marketing its own
production to third parties, BASF SE supplies its products to other BASF Group companies, which
process them in downstream production or sell them on the local market. BASF SE also distributes
products from other BASF Group companies. All divisions, with the exception of Coatings, were active
within BASF SE in 2024. As the parent company, BASF SE is also responsible for various central tasks,
such as Group management and large parts of the Corporate Center. In addition, extensive research
activities are bundled here.
As the top parent company, BASF SE directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies belonging
to the BASF Group. This is reflected above all in the financial assets and the financial result.
Due to this distinct integration into the BASF Group, BASF SE is managed within the framework of the
BASF Group’s Steering Concept and has not implemented a separate steering concept. Income from
operations is the most suitable indicator for assessing business performance and is therefore BASF SE’s
most important financial key performance indicator.
The Financial Statements of BASF SE are prepared in accordance with section 61 of the Council
Regulation (EC) No 2157/2001 of October 8, 2001, on the Statute for a European company (SE) and the
applicable regulations for public limited-liability companies in the Member State in which it has its
registered office, i.e., in accordance with the accounting regulations for the business year ending
December 31, 2024, in particular the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG). The Consolidated Financial Statements of the BASF Group, however, include the
Financial Statements of BASF SE, which are prepared in accordance with the International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS®) of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB®) valid on the
balance sheet date and the additional applicable rules under section 315e(1) of the German Commercial
Code (HGB). IFRSs® are generally only applied after they have been endorsed by the European Union.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 103
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of Operations of BASF SE
Statement of income
Million € 2024 2023
Sales revenue 21,791 22,832
Cost of sales 18,841 20,070
Gross profit on sales 2,950 2,762
Selling expenses 1,886 1,807
General administrative expenses 529 497
Research and development expenses 1,221 1,238
Other operating income 1,000 247
Other operating expenses 1,317 1,531
Income from operations -1,003 -2,064
Income from shareholdings 3,622 9,801
Interest result 367 30
Other financial result 20 78
Financial result 4,009 9,909
Income before income taxes 3,006 7,845
Income taxes 302 411
Net income 2,704 7,434
BASF SE’s sales revenue declined by €1,041 million to €21,791 million in the fiscal year. Despite higher
sales volumes, sales decreased in the operating business due to lower sales prices. The economic
environment continues to pose exceptional challenges for the chemical industry. Against this backdrop,
low plant capacity utilization and impairments on property, plant and equipment recorded in production
costs totaling €65 million had a negative impact on BASF SE’s profit. Effects from lower raw materials
and energy prices as well as from inventory valuation led to a positive earnings contribution in the fiscal
year. Gross profit on sales increased by €188 million overall to €2,950 million.
In line with our forecast, income from operations increased by €1,061 million to -€1,003 million,
marking a considerable improvement. In the fiscal year, income from operations also benefited by
changes to the actuarial assumptions made about pension obligations. In the fiscal year, selling
expenses increased by €79 million and administrative expenses by €32 million. Research expenses
decreased by €17 million. The lower expenditure for exploratory research was offset by impairments of
€46 million.
The balance of other operating income and expenses improved by €967 million compared with the
previous year to -€317 million. Out-of-period income increased by €443 million, mainly due to higher
reversals of provisions, gains from asset disposals, refunds and grants. Furthermore, €160 million lower
expenses from agreed cost transfers from Group companies were recognized. Foreign currency result
improved by €6 million. In addition, expenditures for portfolio measures related to the implementation of
strategic measures decreased by €58 million while impairments increased by €8 million. Expenses for
environmental protection measures increased by €39 million in the fiscal year.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 104
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The financial result decreased by €5,900 million to €4,009 million. The decline in net income from
shareholdings resulted in particular from lower dividends of a Dutch subsidiary of BASF SE. These
dividends resulted mainly from retained earnings in the previous year. Lower profit transfers, which were
mainly influenced by a distribution of retained earnings from a Belgian Group company in the previous
year, continued to have an impact. The increase in the interest result was mainly due to higher interest
income from loans of financial assets to affiliated companies and lower interest expenses to affiliated
companies.
Income before income taxes decreased by €4,839 million year on year to €3,006 million. Income tax
expenses decreased by €109 million in the fiscal year. Due to deferred tax assets and liabilities,
€121 million lower expenses were recorded in the business year. By contrast, current income tax
expenses increased by €12 million.
Net income decreased by €4,730 million compared with the previous year to €2,704 million in 2024.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 105
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Net Assets and Financial Position of BASF SE
Net assets
Assets
Million € December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023
Intangible assets 947 1,159
Property, plant and equipment 3,341 3,403
Financial assets 27,326 22,878
Fixed assets 31,614 27,440
Inventories 2,940 2,913
Accounts receivable, trade 862 796
Receivables from affiliated companies 16,612 23,636
Miscellaneous receivables and other assets 702 657
Receivables and other assets 18,176 25,089
Cash and cash equivalents 1,112 1,160
Current assets 22,228 29,162
Prepaid expenses 159 144
Deferred tax assets – 287
Total assets 54,001 57,033
Total assets declined by €3,032 million compared with December 31, 2023, to €54,001 million.
Fixed assets increased by €4,174 million. Intangible assets declined by €212 million. In addition to
amortization, impairments of €46 million were recognized in the Nutrition & Care segment. Property, plant
and equipment decreased by €62 million. The investments were slightly higher than depreciation.
Furthermore, impairments of €86 million were recognized, which related, among other things, to a plant
in the Chemicals segment. Financial assets increased by €4,448 million mainly due to granting loans to
subsidiaries.
Current assets and other assets decreased by €7,206 million. Receivables from affiliated companies
declined by €7,024 million particularly due to the repayment of financial investments within the Group
and lower profit transfers. In addition, deferred tax assets declined by €287 million as a result of valuation
allowances. Cash and cash equivalents decreased by €48 million and consisted of cash at banks and on
hand as of December 31, 2024. By contrast, trade accounts receivable increased by €66 million and
inventories by €27 million.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 106
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Financial position
Equity and liabilities
Million € December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023
Subscribed capital 1,142 1,142
Capital reserve 3,172 3,172
Retained earnings 16,544 12,144
Retained profits 2,704 7,434
Equity 23,562 23,892
Special reserves 49 52
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 529 1,294
Provisions for taxes 201 218
Other provisions 1,390 1,341
Provisions 2,120 2,853
Financial indebtedness 17,547 17,360
Accounts payable, trade 1,044 1,078
Liabilities to affiliated companies 8,760 10,913
Miscellaneous liabilities 683 650
Liabilities 28,034 30,001
Deferred income 236 235
Total equity and liabilities 54,001 57,033
Equity decreased by €330 million. The net income of €2,704 million was offset by the dividend of
€3,035 million paid for the 2023 reporting year.
Provisions decreased by a total of €733 million. This included a decrease of provisions for pensions by
€765 million to €529 million. The main reason for this decrease was the €270 million increase in pension
plan assets attributable to higher fair values. Additionally, pension obligations decreased by €495 million,
mainly due to benefits paid and changes to actuarial valuation parameters. Pension obligations in the
amount of €6,998 million were offset against pension plan assets totaling €6,469 million. Provisions for
taxes decreased by €17 million. By contrast, other provisions increased by €49 million, particularly due to
higher provisions for environmental protection measures.
Liabilities and other items decreased by €1,969 million. Within this item, liabilities to affiliated
companies decreased by €2,153 million, mainly due to the repayment of intragroup borrowings. By
contrast, financial indebtedness increased by €187 million because the issuance of financial debts was
higher than repayments in the fiscal year.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 107
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Forecast, Opportunities and Risks of BASF SE
Earnings forecast
In its forecast, BASF SE essentially makes the same assumptions regarding the development of global
economic environment as the BASF Group.
Considering these assumptions, we expect income from operations in 2025 to be slightly below the level
of the previous year. In 2024, income from operations was affected by extraordinary effects on income,
particularly by the changes to actuarial assumptions for pension obligations, by gains from asset
disposals, and by effects from inventory valuation. Further restructuring measures had an offsetting
effect in 2024. For 2025, we anticipate positive earnings contributions from the cost saving measures
already implemented, which will be offset by the expenditure for additional restructuring measures
required for the implementation of the corporate strategy. Furthermore, we anticipate extraordinary
effects on income in 2025 to be lower.
Opportunities and risks, risk management system
BASF SE is generally exposed to the same opportunities and risks as the BASF Group.
BASF SE’s internal control and risk management system with regard to the financial reporting process
(section 289(4) HGB) is based on a uniform accounting guideline that sets out accounting policies and
the significant processes and deadlines on a Group-wide basis. There are binding directives for the
internal reconciliations and other accounting operations within the Group. Standard software is used to
carry out the accounting processes, and there are clear rules for the access rights of each participant in
these processes. The Financial Statements and parts of the disclosures on BASF SE in accordance with
the German Commercial Code (HGB) are prepared by a specialist unit in the Global Business Services
division.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 108
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
[Nonfinancial Disclosures of BASF SE]
Due to the importance of BASF SE within the BASF Group, specific disclosures are required when
reporting key sustainability-related information. Such disclosures also became mandatory for the parent
company of the BASF Group, BASF SE, as a result of the CSR Directive Implementation Act, which came
into effect in 2017. An integrated reference option within the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement was
selected in the Management’s Report for the Nonfinancial Statement (NFS) to be issued in the reporting
year in accordance with sections 289b to 289e of the German Commercial Code (HGB). The table on this
and the following page shows the relevant nonfinancial key figures of BASF SE. All disclosures on
strategy, due diligence, targets, described processes and key figures contained in the statements in the
Combined Management’s Report, including the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement, apply to the
BASF Group including BASF SE. No significant deviations were identified for BASF SE.
Nonfinancial disclosures of BASF SE
2024
Employees Employees 33,370
of which apprentices 1,978
Apprentices in final year of apprenticeship who received a job
offera % 88
Participants in Training Verbund (cooperation with partner
companies in the Rhine-Neckar metropolitan region) 66
Training Verbund expenses million € 3
Personnel expenses million € 3,594
of which wages and salaries 2,972
of which social security contributions and expenses for pensions
and assistance 622
of which pension expenses 125
Participants in the “plus” employee share program 17,469
Innovation Employees in research and development 3,941
Research and development expenses million € 1,221
Procurement Procurement spend million € 7,447
Safety (process and Fatality rateb 0.0
occupational safety) Employeesb 0.0
Nonemployeesb 0.0
Contractorsb 0.0
Number of fatalities 0
Employees 0
Nonemployees 0
Contractors 0
High-consequence work-related injury rateb 0.2
Employeesb 0.1
Nonemployeesb 0.8
Contractorsb 0.2
Recordable work-related injury rateb, c 8.4
Employeesb 7.4
Nonemployeesb 21.3
Contractorsb 9.6
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 109
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Nonfinancial disclosures of BASF SE
2024
Safety (process and Number of recordable work-related injuriesc 537
occupational safety)
Employees 353
Nonemployees 55
Contractors 129
Number of days lost to work-related injuries 4,377
Employees 2,898
Nonemployees 376
Contractors 1,103
Rate of high-severity work process-related injuriesb 0.2
Rate of process safety incidentsb 1.7
Rate of high-severity process safety incidentsb 0.3
Transportation incidents 2
Incidents with spillage of more than 200 kilograms of dangerous
goods 0
of which with significant impact on the environment 0
Emergency response Major incident drill 1
Drills and simulations of emergency measures 163
TUIS interventions 136
Management systems Responsible Care audits 24
Environmental Energy demand – electricity MWh 4,587,399
Energy demand – steam metric tons 14,737,149
Energy demand – fossil fuels in power plants MWh 12,056,102
Waste generation metric tons 636,663
of which recycled waste % 46.8
of which waste disposed of % 53.2
of which hazardous waste % 98.1
Emissions of air pollutants (excluding CH); CO, NO, NMVOC, SO,
4 X X
dust, NH3 / other inorganic substances metric tons 5,320
million metric
tons of CO
2
Greenhouse gas emissions: CO, NO, CH, HFC, PFC, SF equivalents 5.1
2 2 4 6
million cubic
Water abstraction meters 1,063
million cubic
Water use meters 2,021
million cubic
Water discharge meters 962
Emissions of organic substances to water metric tons 4,077
Emissions of nitrogen to water metric tons 1,068
Emissions of heavy metals to water metric tons 6
Emissions of phosphorus to water metric tons 63
a Apprentices in catering are excluded from these disclosures.
b Per 1,000,000 working hours
c Recordable work-related injuries for BASF include all injuries recorded in the system in accordance with ESRS.
BASF Report 2024 Fundamentals of the Group 110
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
1.2 Corporate Governance1
Corporate Governance Report
Corporate governance refers to the entire system for managing and
supervising a company. This includes its organization, values, corporate
principles and guidelines as well as internal and external control and
monitoring mechanisms. Effective and transparent corporate governance
ensures that BASF is managed and supervised responsibly with a focus
on value creation and sustainability. It fosters the confidence of our
investors, the financial markets, our customers and other business
partners, employees, other groups affiliated with our company
(stakeholders) as well as the public in BASF.
The fundamental elements of BASF SE’s corporate governance system are: its two-tier management
system, with a transparent and clear separation of company management and supervision between
BASF’s Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board; the equal representation of
shareholders and employee representatives on the Supervisory Board; and the shareholders’ rights of
coadministration and supervision at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
Board of Executive Directors
ESRS 2 GOV-1 ESRS 2 GOV-2
Direction and management by the Board of Executive Directors
The Board of Executive Directors is responsible for managing the company and represents BASF SE in
business undertakings with third parties. BASF’s Board of Executive Directors is strictly separated from
the Supervisory Board, which monitors the Board of Executive Directors’ activities and decides on its
composition: A member of the Board of Executive Directors cannot simultaneously be a member of the
Supervisory Board. As the central duty of company management, the Board of Executive Directors
defines the corporate goals and strategic direction of the BASF Group as well as its individual business
areas, including the sustainability strategy. In doing so, the Board ensures that the opportunities and
risks associated with social and environmental factors for our company (outside-in perspective) as well
as the ecological and societal impacts of BASF’s corporate activities (inside-out perspective) are
systematically identified and evaluated. 〈In addition to long-term economic goals, the corporate strategy
appropriately takes environmental and social objectives into account, too. The corporate planning
defined on this basis comprises financial and sustainability-related goals.〉
Furthermore, the Board of Executive Directors determines the company’s internal organization and
decides on the composition of management positions on the levels below the Board. It also manages
and monitors BASF Group business by planning and setting the corporate budget, allocating resources
and management capacities, monitoring and making decisions on significant individual measures, and
supervising operational management.
The Board’s actions and decisions are geared toward the company’s best interests. It is committed to
the goal of sustainably increasing the company’s value and developing the company over the long term,
taking into account environmental and social goals as well as economic targets. The Board’s
responsibilities include the preparation of the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements of
1 With the exception of the “Disclosures according to sections 289a and 315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Executive
Directors according to section 176(1) sentence 1 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG),” the content of this section is not part of the statutory audit but is part of a
separate audit with limited assurance.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 111
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
BASF SE and reporting on the company’s financial and nonfinancial performance as well as half-year and
quarterly reporting. Furthermore, it must ensure that the company’s activities comply with the applicable
legislation and regulatory requirements as well as internal corporate requirements (compliance). This
includes the establishment of appropriate systems for control, compliance and risk management as well
as embedding a company-wide compliance culture with undisputed standards (see page 317).
Decisions that are reserved for the Board as a whole by law, through the Board of Executive Directors’
Rules of Procedure or through resolutions adopted by the Board, are made and all important matters of
the company are discussed at regularly held Board meetings called by the chair of the Board of
Executive Directors. Board decisions are based on detailed information and analyses provided by the
operating divisions and Corporate Center units as well the service and research units and, if deemed
necessary, by external consultants. The chair of the Board of Executive Directors leads the Board
meetings. Board decisions can generally be made via a simple majority. In the case of a tied vote, the
chair of the Board of Executive Directors gives the casting vote. However, the chair of the Board of
Executive Directors cannot enforce a decision against the Board of Executive Directors’ majority vote.
The chair of the Board also does not have the right to veto. Outside of matters that are assigned to the
entire Board for consultation and decision-making, all members of the Board of Executive Directors are
authorized to make decisions individually in their designated areas of responsibility.
The Board of Executive Directors can set up Board committees to consult and decide on individual
issues such as proposed material acquisition or divestiture projects or to prepare decisions to be made
by the entire Board. These committees must include at least three members of the Board of Executive
Directors. For the preparation of important decisions, such as those on acquisitions, divestitures,
investments and personnel, the Board has various commissions at the level below the Board. With the
support of the Corporate Center units and the service and research units and independently of the
affected operating division, these committees thoroughly assess the planned measures and evaluate the
associated opportunities and risks. Based on this information, they report and make recommendations to
the Board.
The Board of Executive Directors informs the Supervisory Board regularly, without delay and
comprehensively, of all issues important to the company with regard to planning, business development,
the risk situation, risk management and compliance. Furthermore, the Board of Executive Directors
coordinates the company’s strategic orientation with the Supervisory Board (for additional information on
risk management, see the forecast report from page 87 onward). The Statutes of BASF SE and the
Supervisory Board have defined certain transactions that require the Board of Executive Directors to
obtain the Supervisory Board’s approval prior to their conclusion. Such cases that require approval
include the acquisition of enterprises and disposal of parts of enterprises, as well as the issue of bonds
or comparable financial instruments. However, this is only necessary if the acquisition or disposal price
or the amount of the issue in an individual case exceeds 3% of the equity reported in the most recent
approved Consolidated Financial Statements of the BASF Group.
The members of the Board of Executive Directors, including their areas of responsibility and
memberships in the supervisory bodies of other companies, are listed from page 141 onward.
»Additional information on the compensation of the Board of Executive Directors can be found in the Compensation Report at
basf.com/compensationreport.
»The Rules of Procedure for the Board of Executive Directors can be found at basf.com/rules-of-procedure.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 112
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Competence profile, diversity concept and succession planning for the Board of Executive
Directors
The Supervisory Board works hand in hand with the Board of Executive Directors to ensure long-term
succession planning for the composition of the Board of Executive Directors. BASF aims to fill most
Board positions with leaders from within the company. It is the task of the Board of Executive Directors
to propose a sufficient number of suitable individuals to the Supervisory Board.
BASF SE’s two-tier management system
Long-term succession planning is guided by the corporate strategy. It is based on systematic
management development characterized by the following:
– Early identification of suitable leaders of different professional backgrounds, nationalities and genders
– Systematic development of leaders through the successful assumption of tasks with increasing
responsibility, where possible in different business areas, regions and functions
– Desire to shape strategic and operational decisions and proven success in doing so, as well as
leadership skills, especially under challenging business conditions
– Role model function in putting corporate values into practice
The aim of systematic management development is to enable the Supervisory Board to ensure a
reasonable level of diversity with respect to education and professional experience, cultural background,
international representation, gender and age when appointing members of the Board of Executive
Directors. Irrespective of these individual criteria, a holistic approach will determine a person’s suitability
for appointment to the Board of Executive Directors of BASF SE. Both systematic succession planning
and the selection process aim to ensure that the Board of Executive Directors as a whole has the
following profile, which serves as a diversity concept:
– Many years of leadership experience in scientific, technical and commercial fields
– International experience based on background and/or professional experience
– At least one female Board member
– A balanced age distribution to ensure the continuity of the Board’s work and enable seamless
succession planning
The first appointment of members of the Board of Executive Directors is for a term of no more than three
years. The standard age limit for members of the Board of Executive Directors is 63. The Supervisory
Board determines the number of members on the Board of Executive Directors. It is guided by the
concept of BASF as a company comprising core businesses and standalone businesses and is
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 113
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
determined by the needs arising from cooperation within the Board of Executive Directors. The
Supervisory Board considers six to be an appropriate number of Board members given the current
business composition, future development tasks and the fundamental organizational structure of the
BASF Group.
Implementation of the competence profile and the diversity concept for the Board of
Executive Directors
The current composition of the Board of Executive Directors meets the competence profile and the
requirements of the diversity concept in full. On account of the different educational backgrounds and
management experience of its members – in scientific, technical and commercial fields – the Board of
Executive Directors as a whole covers the required spectrum of specialist and management expertise
and also possesses many years of international experience. In accordance with section 76 (3a) of the
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), one woman sits on the Board of Executive Directors, with suitable
consideration of women forming an integral component of succession planning for the Board of
Executive Directors. In its current composition, the Board of Executive Directors exhibits a balanced age
structure and has an age range of seven years, meaning that sufficient continuity is assured in the work
of the Board of Executive Directors. Likewise, no member of the Board of Executive Directors exceeds
the standard age limit of 63 years.
For details, please see the matrix below:
Implementation of the competence profile and diversity concept of the Board of Executive Directors
Dr. Markus Dr. Dirk Michael Anup Dr. Stephan Dr. Katja
Kamieth Elvermann Heinz Kothari Kothrade Scharpwinkel
Member of the 2017 2023 2011 2024 2023 2024
Board of Executive
Directors since
Position as of Chairman of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the
December 31, 2024 Board of Board of Board of Board of Board of Board of
Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive Executive
Directors, Directors, Chief Directors, Directors, Directors, Chief Directors,
BASF SE, Financial Officer BASF SE, BASF SE, Technology Industrial
Ludwigshafen, and Chief Digital Chairman of Ludwigshafen, Officer, Relations
Germany Officer, BASF Germany BASF SE, Director, Site
BASF SE, Corporation, located in Director of the
Ludwigshafen, located in Ludwigshafen, Ludwigshafen
Germany Florham Park, Germany, and site, BASF SE,
New Jersey Singapore Ludwigshafen,
Germany
Duties and regional Corporate Corporate Agricultural Catalysts; Monomers; European Site &
responsibilities Development; Finance; Solutions; Coatings; Performance Verbund
(2024 business year) Corporate Corporate Nutrition & Dispersions & Materials; Management;
Legal, Audit; Health; Care Resins; Petrochemicals; Global
Compliance & Corporate Chemicals; Performance Intermediates; Engineering
Insurance; Taxes & Duties; North America Chemicals Group Services;
Corporate Global Business region; South Research; Corporate
Human Services; Global America region Greater China; Environmental
Resources; Digital Services; South & East Protection,
Corporate Global Asia, ASEAN & Health, Safety &
Communication Procurement; Australia/New Quality; Europe,
s & Government BASF Venture Zealand; Mega Middle East,
Relations; Capital Projects Asia Africa region
Corporate
Investor
Relations;
Senior Project
Net Zero
Accelerator
At BASF since 1999 2003 1984 1999 1995 2010
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 114
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Implementation of the competence profile and diversity concept of the Board of Executive Directors
Dr. Markus Dr. Dirk Michael Anup Dr. Stephan Dr. Katja
Kamieth Elvermann Heinz Kothari Kothrade Scharpwinkel
Leadership experience within BASF
Scientific ü ü
Technical ü ü ü ü
Commercial ü ü ü ü ü ü
Diversity
Date of birth November 25, August 13, February 18, January 8, 1968 March 13, 1967 September 10,
1970 1971 1964 1969
Gender Male Male Male Male Male Female
Degree Chemistry Law MBA Chemical Chemistry Chemistry
engineering,
MBA
Nationality German German German American German German
International experience
Europe ü ü ü ü ü ü
North/South/Central
ü ü ü
America
China ü ü ü
Asia Pacific ü ü ü ü
Experience relevant to the sectors, products, geographical locations and customer industries of BASF
Chemicals Director, President, VP, Distribution
Business Mgmt. Intermediates; Business
Acrylics & Managing Europe &
Superabsor- Director Nanjing Managing
bents North Verbund site; Director, BTC
America & SVP, BASF Europe GmbH
South America Antwerpen
N.V./Plant
Operations,
Engineering &
Infrastructure
Materials SVP, BASF
Antwerpen
N.V./Plant
Operations,
Engineering &
Infrastructure
Industrial Solutions SVP, President, President, Operations Head of Sales
Performance Global Performance Manager, Lubricant
Chemicals Integration Chemicals; Lutonal plant, Additives
North America; Team Ciba and SVP, Ludwigshafen, Central Europe,
Director, Ciba Chief Executive Performance Germany Ciba Specialty
Integration for Officer Ciba Chemicals Chemicals
Performance North America
Chemicals
Division
Surface President, VP, Business SVP,
Technologies Coatings Mgmt. Mobile Automotive
Emissions Refinish
Catalysts Asia Coatings
Pacific; Solutions
VP, Strategy & EMEA, BASF
Planning/New Coatings GmbH
Business
Development
Catalysts
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 115
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Implementation of the competence profile and diversity concept of the Board of Executive Directors
Dr. Markus Dr. Dirk Michael Anup Dr. Stephan Dr. Katja
Kamieth Elvermann Heinz Kothari Kothrade Scharpwinkel
Nutrition & Care President, President, Production and Head of Sales
Global Nutrition & research for Formulation
Integration Health; water-soluble Technologies
Team Cognis; Global special Europe, BASF
Product Marketing polymers for Personal Care
Manager PVP Manager & cosmetics and and Nutrition
Polymers Business pharmaceuticals GmbH;
Manager, Care Regional Sales
Chemicals Director
Functional
Products
Europe, Cognis;
Regional
Marketing
Director Care
Chemicals
North Europe,
Cognis
Agricultural Solutions President, Crop
Protection;
Group Vice
President Global
Strategic
Marketing
Agricultural
Products
Research & Research of Production and
Development special and research for
process water-soluble
chemicals special
polymers for
cosmetics and
pharmaceuticals
Technology Technology & Managing
Capital Program Director,
Manager, BASF Nanjing
Corporation Verbund site;
SVP, BASF
Antwerpen
N.V./Plant
Operations,
Engineering &
Infrastructure
Corporate functions Staff of member President, Managing President, President,
of the Board of Corporate Director, BASF Greater China; Europe, Middle
Executive Finance; Mexicana S.A. President YPC East and Africa
Directors member of the Joint Venture,
Board, Nanjing;
Wintershall
Corporate
Holding GmbH;
Strategy &
SVP, Corporate
Planning;
M&A Projects;
Managing
Managing
Director, BASF
Director, BASF
Hungária &
Polska Sp.
Southeast
z.o.o.;
Europe,
Vice President,
Budapest,
Legal and Tax
Hungary
Asia Pacific
Sustainability-related
specialist ü ü ü ü ü ü
knowledgea
Automotive industry ü ü ü ü
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 116
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Implementation of the competence profile and diversity concept of the Board of Executive Directors
Dr. Markus Dr. Dirk Michael Anup Dr. Stephan Dr. Katja
Kamieth Elvermann Heinz Kothari Kothrade Scharpwinkel
Construction industry ü ü ü ü ü
Electronics industry ü
Agriculture ü
Packaging industry ü ü ü ü
Energy industry ü ü ü ü
Pharmaceutical and
ü ü ü ü ü
cosmetics industry
Household and
ü ü ü ü ü
cleaning industry
a In particular, taking into account the sustainability topics that are material for BASF, which were identified following the double materiality assessment. Details can be
found in the section “Competence of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board in monitoring sustainability aspects” from page 133 onward.
Proportions represented in the Board of Executive Directors according to the aspects of diversity taken
into account (as of December 31, 2024)
Proportion of womena 16.7%
Proportion of members with international experience based on their
background or professional experience 83.3%
Proportion of members with many years of leadership experience
– in scientific fields 33.3%
– in technical fields 66.7%
– in commercial fields 100%
Proportion of members under 60 years of age 83.3%
a We do not currently record a third gender in the aspects of diversity represented in the Board of Executive Directors. We will regularly review the relevance of this category
in external reporting.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 117
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Supervisory Board
ESRS 2 GOV-1 ESRS 2 GOV-2
Supervision of company management by the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Board of Executive Directors. It supervises and
advises the Board of Executive Directors on management issues and must also be involved in making
decisions that are of key importance for the company. This also includes the Board of Executive
Directors’ consideration of sustainability issues with regard to corporate management. The Supervisory
Board is also responsible for auditing BASF SE’s and the BASF Group’s Annual Financial Statements. As
members of the Supervisory Board may not simultaneously be on the Board of Executive Directors, a
high level of independence is already structurally ensured with regard to the supervision of the Board of
Executive Directors.
In addition to the SE Regulation, the relevant legal basis for the size and composition of the Supervisory
Board is provided by the Statutes of BASF SE and the Agreement Concerning the Involvement of
Employees in BASF SE (Employee Participation Agreement). The latter also includes the regulations
applicable to BASF for implementing the statutory gender quota for the Supervisory Board. The German
Codetermination Act does not apply to BASF SE as a European stock corporation (Societas Europaea,
SE).
The Supervisory Board of BASF SE comprises 12 members. Six members are elected by the
shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting via a simple majority. Six members are elected by the
BASF Europa Betriebsrat (BASF Works Council Europe), the European employee representation body of
the BASF Group. Newly elected members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for a term of four
years. This ensures that the maximum membership duration of 12 years up to which a Supervisory Board
member can be classified as independent in accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code
corresponds to a total of three election terms.
Meetings of the Supervisory Board and its four committees are called by their respective chairs and
independently, at the request of one of their members or the Board of Executive Directors. The
shareholder and employee representatives of the Supervisory Board prepare for Supervisory Board
meetings in separate preliminary discussions. Resolutions of the Supervisory Board are passed by a
simple majority vote of the participating Supervisory Board members. In the event of a tie, the vote of the
chair of the Supervisory Board, who must always be a shareholder representative, gives the casting vote.
This resolution process is also applicable for the appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of
Executive Directors by the Supervisory Board. Resolutions can, as needed, also be made in writing or
through electronic communication outside of the meetings, as long as no Supervisory Board member
objects to this form of passing a resolution. The Supervisory Board meets regularly even without the
Board of Executive Directors.
The Board of Executive Directors continually informs the Supervisory Board about matters such as the
course of business and expected developments, the results of operations, net assets and financial
position, material acquisition and divestiture projects, corporate planning, the implementation of the
corporate strategy, including the sustainability strategy, business opportunities and risks as well as risk
and compliance management and the internal control system. The Supervisory Board has embedded the
main reporting requirements in an information policy. The chair of the Supervisory Board is in regular
contact with the Board of Executive Directors, especially with its chair, outside of meetings as well.
A list of the members of BASF SE’s Supervisory Board indicating which members are shareholder or
employee representatives and their appointments to the supervisory bodies of other companies can be
found from page 143 onward.
»For more information on the Supervisory Board’s information policy, see basf.com/rules-of-procedure
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 118
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
»Additional information on the compensation of the Supervisory Board can be found at basf.com/compensationreport.
»The Statutes of BASF SE and the Employee Participation Agreement can be found at basf.com/statutes and
basf.com/en/corporategovernance.
Personnel Committee
Members
Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer2 (Chairman)
Dr. Kurt Bock2
Prof. Dr. Thomas Carell2
Tatjana Diether2
Sinischa Horvat2
Michael Vassiliadis
Duties
– Prepares the appointment of members to the Board of Executive Directors by the Supervisory Board
as well as the service contracts to be entered into with members of the Board of Executive Directors
– When making recommendations for appointments to the Board of Executive Directors, considers
professional qualifications, international experience and leadership skills as well as long-term
succession planning, diversity, and especially the appropriate consideration of women
– Prepares the resolutions made by the Supervisory Board with regard to the system and amount of
compensation paid to members of the Board of Executive Directors
Audit Committee
Members
Alessandra Genco2 (Chairwoman)
Tatjana Diether2
Tamara Weinert2
Michael Vassiliadis
Duties
– Prepares the negotiations and resolutions of the Supervisory Board for the approval of the Financial
Statements, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Management’s Reports, including the
Nonfinancial Statements and sustainability reporting and discusses the Quarterly Statements and the
Half-Year Financial Report with the Board of Executive Directors prior to their publication
– Deals with monitoring the accounting process, the annual audit, including sustainability reporting and
its audit, the appropriateness and effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk management
system, the internal auditing system and compliance management system as well as compliance
issues, including compliance with statutory regulations and internal environmental, health and safety
regulations (EHS compliance)
– Is responsible for business relations with the company’s auditor and the auditor of the company’s
sustainability report: prepares the Supervisory Board’s proposal to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
regarding the selection of an auditor for the Annual and Consolidated Financial Statements and the
audit review of the Half-Year Financial Report, monitors the auditor’s independence, defines the focus
areas of the audit together with the auditor, discusses the audit risk, audit strategy and audit plan with
the auditor, negotiates auditing fees, evaluates the quality of the annual audit, and establishes the
conditions for the provision of the auditor’s nonaudit services; the chair of the Audit Committee
regularly discusses this with the auditor outside of meetings as well and reports to the Committee on
such discussions; the Audit Committee regularly consults with the auditor, even without the Chief
Financial Officer or another member of the Board of Executive Directors.
2 Classified by the Supervisory Board as an “independent” member of the Supervisory Board (see page 122 for the criteria used to determine independence)
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 119
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– Deals with post-audits of key acquisition and investment projects
– Is responsible for monitoring the internal process of identifying related party transactions and ensuring
adherence to statutory approval and disclosure requirements; grants approval of related party
transactions
– Is authorized to request any information that it deems necessary from the auditor or from the Board of
Executive Directors and has a direct right to information from the heads of the units of the Corporate
Center such as Corporate Audit or Corporate Compliance; can also view all of BASF’s business
documents and examine these and all other assets belonging to BASF. The Audit Committee can also
engage experts such as auditors or lawyers to carry out these inspections.
Special expertise in the areas of the annual audit and accounting
The Audit Committee includes two members with expertise (special knowledge and experience within the
meaning of the German Corporate Governance Code) in the fields of accounting and auditing. The
Chairwoman of the Audit Committee, Alessandra Genco, has deep expertise in accounting, including
sustainability reporting, due to her studies in economics, her professional experience working for
financial institutions and her current role as chief financial officer of a publicly listed international
company based in the EU. Tamara Weinert has special expertise in the field of auditing, including the
audit of sustainability reporting, and accounting expertise due to her former role as the Chief Financial
Officer for EMEA at Outokumpu and her professional activities in the finance departments of various
companies around the world. Both closely monitor current developments in sustainability reporting,
particularly the European regulations of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), and its
auditing and actively contribute this expertise to the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee.
Nomination Committee
Members
Dr. Kurt Bock3 (Chairman)
Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer3
Prof. Dr. Thomas Carell3
Liming Chen3
Alessandra Genco3
Tamara Weinert3
Duties
– Identifies suitable individuals for the Supervisory Board based on objectives for the composition
decided on by the Supervisory Board
– Prepares the recommendations made by the Supervisory Board for the election of Supervisory Board
members representing the shareholders by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
3 Classified by the Supervisory Board as an “independent” member of the Supervisory Board (see page 122 for the criteria used to determine independence)
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 120
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Strategy Committee
Members
Dr. Kurt Bock4 (Chairman)
Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer4
Alessandra Genco4
Sinischa Horvat4
André Matta4
Michael Vassiliadis
Duties
– Handles the further development of the company’s strategy
– Prepares resolutions of the Supervisory Board on the company’s major acquisitions and divestitures
The Supervisory Board has not established a dedicated Sustainability Committee. Sustainability is a
topic of such pivotal importance to BASF with its economic success, environment and social-related
aspects that the entire Supervisory Board regularly discusses it in detail as a cross-cutting issue. This
also applies to the significant issue of reducing CO emissions and the targeted conversion of business
2
activities to emission-free power supply and production processes with a lower emission rate.
Meetings and meeting attendance
In the 2024 business year, meetings were held as follows:
– The Supervisory Board met six times.
– The Personnel Committee met three times.
– The Audit Committee met five times.
– The Nomination Committee did not meet.
– The Strategy Committee met three times.
All members attended all meetings of the Supervisory Board. The meetings of the Supervisory Board
committees were attended by all respective committee members. During the 2024 business year, the
meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees were held almost entirely as general in-person
meetings with the additional option of virtual attendance. Only the Audit Committee held one of its five
meetings as a hybrid meeting.
For more information on the activities of the Supervisory Board and its committees in the 2024 business
year, see the Report of the Supervisory Board from page 462 onward.
»For an overview of meeting attendance, see basf.com/supervisoryboard/meetings
»The Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board and its committees can be found at basf.com/rules-of-procedure.
Competence profile, diversity concept, independence and further objectives for the
composition of the Supervisory Board
One important concern of good corporate governance is to ensure that seats on the responsible
corporate bodies, the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board are appropriately filled. In
December 2017, the Supervisory Board agreed for the first time on objectives for the composition, the
competence profile and the diversity concept of the Supervisory Board. These objectives and the
competence profile have since been continuously updated in the implementation of legal requirements
and further developed, taking into account the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance
Code (GCGC). The guiding principle for the composition of the Supervisory Board is to ensure qualified
supervision and guidance for the Board of Executive Directors of BASF SE. For the election of
shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board, individuals will only be nominated to the Annual
4 Classified by the Supervisory Board as an “independent” member of the Supervisory Board (see page 122 for the criteria used to determine independence)
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 121
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Shareholders’ Meeting who can, based on their professional knowledge and experience, integrity,
commitment, independence and character, successfully perform the work of a supervisory board
member at an international chemical company.
Competence profile
The following requirements and objectives (competence profile as amended in December 2022) are
considered essential to the composition of the Supervisory Board as a collective body:
– Leadership experience in managing companies, associations and networks
– Members’ collective knowledge of the chemical sector and the related value chains
– Appropriate knowledge within the body as a whole of finance, accounting, financial reporting, risk
management, law and compliance
– Appropriate expertise within the body as a whole on sustainability issues relevant to BASF
– At least one member with special knowledge and experience (special expertise) in the field of
accounting, including sustainability reporting
– At least one member with special knowledge and experience (special expertise) in the field of financial
auditing, including the audit of sustainability reporting
– At least one member with in-depth experience in innovation, research and development, and
technology
– At least one member with in-depth experience in the areas of digitalization, information technology,
business models and startups
– At least one member with in-depth experience in the areas of human resources, society,
communications and the media
– Specialist knowledge and experience in sectors outside of the chemical industry
Diversity concept
The Supervisory Board strives to achieve a reasonable level of diversity with respect to character,
gender, international representation, professional background, specialist knowledge and experience as
well as age distribution. It takes the following composition criteria into account:
– At least 30% of members are women and 30% of members are men.
– At least 30% of members have international experience based on their background or professional
experience.
– At least 50% of members have different educational backgrounds and professional experience.
– At least 30% of members are under the age of 60.
Independence
To ensure the independent monitoring and consultation of the Board of Executive Directors, the
Supervisory Board should have an appropriate number of independent members on the Board as a
whole and an appropriate number of independent shareholder representatives. The Supervisory Board
deems this to be the case if more than half of the shareholder representatives and at least eight members
of the Supervisory Board as a whole can be considered independent. The Supervisory Board’s
assessment of independence is based on the assessment criteria in the current respective version of the
German Corporate Governance Code.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 122
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
According to these criteria, indicators of a lack of independence of a Supervisory Board member are:
– Membership of the Board of Executive Directors of the company in the two years prior to being
appointed to the Supervisory Board
– Significant business relations with the company or an entity dependent on the company (such as a
customer, supplier, lender or adviser), either currently or in the year prior to their appointment, either
directly or as a shareholder of, or in a responsible position at, a third-party company
– Close family relations with a member of the Board of Executive Directors
– Membership of the Supervisory Board for more than 12 years
The Supervisory Board has additionally defined the following principles to clarify the meaning of
independence:
– The independence of employee representatives is not compromised by their role as an employee
representative or employment by BASF SE or a Group company.
– Prior membership of the Board of Executive Directors of BASF SE does not preclude independence
following the expiry of the statutory cooling-off period of two years.
– Material transactions between a Supervisory Board member or a related party or undertaking of the
Supervisory Board member on the one hand, and BASF SE or a BASF Group company on the other,
exclude a member of the Supervisory Board from being qualified as independent. A material
transaction is defined as one or more transactions in a single calendar year with a total volume of 1%
or more of the sales of the companies involved in each case.
– If a Supervisory Board member or a related party or undertaking of a Supervisory Board member has a
personal service or consulting agreement with BASF SE or one of its Group companies with an annual
compensation of over 50% of the Supervisory Board compensation, they do not qualify as
independent.
– Furthermore, if a Supervisory Board member or a related party of a Supervisory Board member holds
more than 20% of the shares in a company in which BASF SE is indirectly or directly the majority
shareholder, the necessary independence is also not met.
The assessment criteria for independence of the German Corporate Governance Code and the
Supervisory Board’s own principles to clarify the meaning of independence are significantly narrower
than the new provisions of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772. As such, this ensures that the majority
of Supervisory Board members do not have any interests, positions, associations or relations that, from
the perspective of a reasonable and informed third party, are conducive to exerting undue influence on
decision-making or to causing bias.
Further objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board
– Character and integrity: Members of the Supervisory Board must be personally reliable and have the
knowledge and experience required to diligently and independently perform the work of a supervisory
board member.
– Availability: Each member of the Supervisory Board ensures that they invest the time needed to
properly perform their role as a member of the Supervisory Board of BASF SE. The statutory limits on
appointments and the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code must be
complied with when accepting further appointments.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 123
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– No conflicts of interest: Persons who may be subject to a conflict of interest may not be nominated for
election to the Supervisory Board. A conflict of interest is deemed to be any personal interest, or third-
party interest relevant to the nominated person, that, on account of its duration or intensity, gives
cause for concern that the business interests of BASF will be impaired or jeopardized.
– Age limit and period of membership: Persons who have reached the age of 72 on the day of election
by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting should generally not be nominated for election. Membership on
the Supervisory Board should generally not exceed three regular statutory periods in office, which
corresponds to 12 years.
Implementation status of the competence profile, diversity concept, independence
requirements and further objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board
According to the Supervisory Board’s own assessment, its current composition meets all of the
requirements of the competence profile: Every single area of competence is covered by multiple
members of the Supervisory Board. In particular, the in-depth knowledge and experience of the chemical
sector and the related value chains, which are crucial for understanding the business activities of BASF,
are broadly represented. The Supervisory Board also has the essential knowledge of accounting,
financial reporting and auditing, including sustainability reporting and its auditing, required for monitoring
the management of the company.
According to the Supervisory Board’s own assessment, its current composition also meets all of the
independence requirements in full: Eleven of the 12 current members, of which six are shareholder
representatives and five are employee representatives, are considered independent based on the above
criteria. As such, the Supervisory Board’s independence rate stands at 91.7%. Only the employee
representative Michael Vassiliadis is no longer considered independent as he has been a member of the
Supervisory Board since August 2004, and therefore for over 12 years.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board meets the required composition criteria under the diversity concept
in full: The share of women stands at 33.3%, the share of members with international experience stands
at 50%, the share of different educational backgrounds and professional expertise stands at 66.7% and
the share of members under 60 at 66.7%.
The implementation status of the competence profile, diversity concept, independence requirements and
further objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board is disclosed below in the form of a
qualification matrix:
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 124
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Qualifications matrix of the shareholder representatives in the Supervisory Board
Prof. Dr.
Dr. Stefan Prof. Dr.
Kurt Asenkersch- Thomas Liming Alessandra Tamara
Bock baumer Carell Chen Gencoa Weinertb
Membership of the Supervisory Board of BASF SE
Member since June 18, 2020 April 29, 2022 May 3, 2019 October 8, April 29, 2022 April 25, 2024
2020
Committee Nomination Nomination Nomination Nomination Audit Audit
memberships Committee Committee; Committee; Committee Committee Committee;
(Chairman); Strategy Personnel (Chairwoman); Nomination
Strategy Committee; Committee Nomination Committee
Committee Personnel Committee;
(Chairman); Committee Strategy
Personnel (Chairman) Committee
Committee
Personal suitability and availability
Independence in
accordance with ü ü ü ü ü ü
GCGC
Independence in
accordance with
ü ü ü ü ü ü
Delegated Regulation
(EU) 2023/2772
Memberships of BMW AGc (Vice Robert Bosch None ACWA Power Elettronica SpAd None
other supervisory Chairman, GmbHd Company (controlled
bodies Chairman of the (Chairman); SJSCc interest of
Audit Stadler Rail AGd (nonexecutive Leonardo SpA)
Committee, independent
member of the Board member
Personnel and since January 5,
Nomination 2025)
Committees)
No overboarding ü ü ü ü ü ü
Participation rate in 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Supervisory Board
meetings and its
committees (2024)
Diversity
Date of birth July 3, 1958 April 27, 1956 April 26, 1966 January 29, August 4, 1973 February 16,
1960 1965
Gender Male Male Male Male Female Female
Vocational training Business Business Organic Food science Economics Banking;
administration education; chemistry finance;
business protected
administration landscape
management
Position held Chairman of the Managing Professor of Nonexecutive Chief Financial President and
Supervisory partner, Robert Organic independent Officer of Chief Executive
Board of Bosch Chemistry at Board member Leonardo SpA Officer of the
BASF SE Industrietreu- Ludwig- of ACWA Power Business Area
hand KG (RBIK), Maximilians- Company SJSC Americas,
Chairman of the University member of the
Supervisory Munich Leadership
Board of Robert Team of
Bosch GmbH Outokumpu
Corporation
Nationality German German German Singaporean Italian German
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 125
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Qualifications matrix of the shareholder representatives in the Supervisory Board
Prof. Dr.
Dr. Stefan Prof. Dr.
Kurt Asenkersch- Thomas Liming Alessandra Tamara
Bock baumer Carell Chen Gencoa Weinertb
International experience
Europe ü ü ü ü ü ü
North/South/Central
ü ü ü ü ü
America
China ü
Asia Pacific ü ü
Professional knowledge and experience/competence profilee
Leadership of
companies,
ü ü ü ü ü ü
associations and
networks
Chemical sector and
ü ü ü ü
related value chains
Finance, accounting,
financial reporting,
ü ü ü ü ü
risk management,
law and compliance
Sustainabilityf ü ü ü ü ü ü
Accounting and
auditing, including
ü ü ü ü
sustainability
reporting
Innovation, research
and development ü ü ü
and technology
Digitalization, IT,
business models and ü ü ü ü ü ü
startups
Human resources,
society,
ü ü ü ü ü ü
communications and
the media
Economic sectors
others than the ü ü ü ü ü ü
chemical industry
a Member with special knowledge of and experience in accounting, including sustainability reporting
b Member with special knowledge of and experience in auditing, including sustainability auditing
c Publicly listed
d Not publicly listed
e Based on a self-assessment by the Supervisory Board and taking into account the individual assessment of each of its members. A check mark signifies at least good
knowledge in this area and thus the ability to understand relevant issues well and make informed decisions, either on the basis of existing qualifications or on the basis of
knowledge acquired through the Supervisory Board activity and in further training measures.
f In particular, taking into account the sustainability topics that are material for BASF, which were identified following the double materiality assessment. Details can be
found in the section “Competence of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board in monitoring sustainability aspects” from page 133 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 126
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Qualifications matrix of the employee representatives in the Supervisory Board
Sinischa Tatjana André Natalie Michael Peter
Horvat Diether Matta Mühlenfeld Vassiliadis Zaman
Membership of the Supervisory Board of BASF SE
Member since May 12, 2017 May 4, 2018 April 29, 2022 April 29, 2022 August 1, 2004 April 29, 2022
Committee Personnel Audit Strategy None Audit None
memberships Committee; Committee; Committee Committee;
Strategy Personnel Personnel
Committee Committee Committee;
Strategy
Committee
Personal suitability and availability
Independence in
accordance with ü ü ü ü ü
GCGC
Independence in
accordance with
ü ü ü ü ü ü
Delegated Regulation
(EU) 2023/2772
Memberships of None None None 3M Deutschland Steag GmbHa; None
other supervisory GmbHa; Henkel AG &
bodies Solventum Co. KGaAb;
Germany RAG
GmbHa Aktiengesell-
schafta (Vice
Chairman);
Vivawest
GmbHa
No overboarding ü ü ü ü ü ü
Participation rate in 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Supervisory Board
meetings and its
committees (2024)
Diversity
Date of birth January 30, April 4, 1975 June 30, 1970 August 13, March 13, 1964 November 25,
1976 1980 1968
Gender Male Female Male Female Male Male
Vocational training Process control Technical Machinist; Law Chemical Automotive
electronics; drawing: chemical laboratory mechanic; plant
business commercial technician technician operator
administration training
Position held Chairman of the Deputy Member of the Board secretary Chairman of the Secretary of the
Works Council Chairwoman of Works Council of the Board IGBCE Works Council
of BASF SE, the Works of BASF SE, Division 1 of BASF
Ludwigshafen Council of Ludwigshafen Politics/ Antwerpen N.V.
site, of the BASF SE, site, of the Transformation,
BASF Group Ludwigshafen BASF Group IGBCE
Works Council, site, and Works Council
and of the BASF member of the and of the BASF
Works Council BASF Group Works Council
Europe Works Council Europe
and of the BASF
Works Council
Europe
Nationality German German German German German Belgian
International experience
Europe ü ü ü ü ü ü
North/South/Central
America
China
Asia Pacific
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 127
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Qualifications matrix of the employee representatives in the Supervisory Board
Sinischa Tatjana André Natalie Michael Peter
Horvat Diether Matta Mühlenfeld Vassiliadis Zaman
Professional knowledge and experience/competence profilec
Leadership of
companies,
ü ü ü ü ü
associations and
networks
Chemical sector and
ü ü ü ü ü ü
related value chains
Finance, accounting,
financial reporting,
ü ü ü
risk management,
law and compliance
Sustainabilityd ü ü ü ü ü ü
Accounting and
auditing, including
ü ü
sustainability
reporting
Innovation, research
and development ü ü
and technology
Digitalization, IT,
business models and ü ü ü
startups
Human resources,
society,
ü ü ü ü ü ü
communications and
the media
Economic sectors
others than the ü ü ü
chemical industry
a Not publicly listed
b Publicly listed
c Based on a self-assessment by the Supervisory Board and taking into account the individual assessment of each of its members. A check mark signifies at least good
knowledge in this area and thus the ability to understand relevant issues well and make informed decisions, either on the basis of existing qualifications or on the basis of
knowledge acquired through the Supervisory Board activity and in further training measures.
d In particular, taking into account the sustainability topics that are material for BASF, which were identified following the double materiality assessment. Details can be
found in the section “Competence of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board in monitoring sustainability aspects” from page 133 onward.
Proportions represented in the Supervisory Board according to the aspects of diversity and
independence taken into account (as of December 31, 2024)
Proportion of womena 33.3%
Proportion of members with international experience based on their
background or professional experience 50%
Proportion of members with different educational backgrounds and
professional experience 66.7%
Proportion of members under 60 years of age 66.7%
Proportion of independent members in accordance with GCGC 91.7%
Proportion of independent members in accordance with Delegated
Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 100%
a We do not currently record a third gender in the aspects of diversity represented in the Supervisory Board. We will regularly review the relevance of this category in
external reporting.
For more information on the statutory minimum quotas for the number of women and men on the
Supervisory Board, see the section “Commitments to promote the participation of women in leadership
positions at BASF SE” on page 135.
»For more information on the Supervisory Board’s competence profile, see basf.com/competence-profile/supervisoryboard
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 128
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The Board of Executive Directors’ and the Supervisory Board’s handling of
sustainability topics
ESRS 2 GOV-1 ESRS 2 GOV-2
Organization and responsibilities for monitoring sustainability-related impacts, risks and
opportunities
Sustainability aspects are systematically incorporated within the strategy, operations and assessment,
steering and compensation systems of BASF.
Sustainability-related opportunities and risks are systematically recorded as part of opportunity and risk
management. Sustainability-related impacts are analyzed and evaluated by the Corporate Sustainability
unit. Decisions regarding investments, acquisitions and divestitures take into account comprehensive
assessments of sustainability impacts. Sustainability topics and the related risk management as well as
the internal control system are the responsibility of the entire Board of Executive Directors. It defines the
basic requirements and processes as well as the organization of the risk management system. The Board
of Executive Directors also determines the processes for approving investments, acquisitions and
divestitures. In this regard, it is also supported by the units of the Corporate Center and the Risk
Committee, which reviews the Group-wide risk profile and any necessary adjustments to measures at
least twice a year.
The supervisory and advisory activities of the entire Supervisory Board also include the Board of
Executive Directors’ consideration of sustainability topics with regard to corporate management and
strategy development, including the impacts of the company’s activities. Supervision of the risk
management system and the internal control system, the internal auditing system, the appropriateness
and effectiveness of the compliance management system, and compliance with statutory provisions and
internal health, safety and environmental regulations falls within the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also deals with follow-up assessments of key acquisition and investment projects.
The Audit Committee also monitors sustainability reporting and its auditing as part of its supervision of
accounting and auditing. For additional information on organization and responsibilities in connection
with the management of opportunities and risks, see page 87 onward.
As part of the development of the new corporate strategy, which was communicated both internally and
externally in September 2024, the Board of Executive Directors identified the transformation toward a
more sustainable portfolio as a strategic lever to enable the green transformation of BASF’s customers
as their preferred chemical company. The Strategy Committee of the Supervisory Board was involved in
developing the new strategy and in the decision-making process; furthermore, the Supervisory Board as
a whole was regularly informed of the current status.
Together with specialists from operating divisions and service units, the Corporate Center is responsible
for integrating sustainability into decision-making processes and for steering and reporting processes
regarding sustainability topics. The Corporate Strategy & Sustainability unit is also responsible for the
global steering of climate-related matters. Group-wide risk and opportunity management is the
responsibility of the Corporate Center unit Corporate Finance, which reports to the Chief Financial
Officer. The Corporate Strategy & Sustainability unit reports to the Chairman of the Board of Executive
Directors.
Sustainability topics are discussed regularly and managed collectively by the Board of Executive
Directors. When making its decisions, the Board of Executive Directors considers the results and
recommendations from sustainability evaluations of business processes. It makes decisions with
strategic relevance for the Group and monitors the implementation of strategic plans and their target
achievement. The Supervisory Board is regularly briefed on the development of individual sustainability
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 129
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
topics, on sustainability targets and the status of target achievement, by the Board of Executive
Directors.
The Chief Human Rights Officer is responsible for further embedding human rights aspects in decision-
making processes. He reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors.
The systematic evaluation of sustainability criteria, including the impacts of climate change, is an integral
part of decisions on investments, acquisitions and divestitures in property, plant and equipment and
financial assets. In this way, not only are economic dimensions assessed, but also the potential impacts
on areas such as the environment, human rights or the local community, with the assessment taking both
the potential impacts of company activities and the impacts on the company into account.
If potential negative impacts are identified, for example, in planned investments, these are presented
transparently in the internal decision-making process together with possible mitigation measures. In the
business year under review, the Board of Executive Directors therefore again took appropriate account of
compromises developed in connection with the impacts, risks and opportunities of significant
transactions and the risk management process, and discussed these compromises with the Supervisory
Board.
Pursuant to the Statutes of the company and the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board,
investment, acquisition and divestiture decisions of the Board of Executive Directors and the
commencement of new business areas as well as the discontinuation of existing ones require the
consent of the Supervisory Board insofar as they are of material significance for the Group as a whole.
The Supervisory Board is thus always involved comprehensively and at an early stage in the
aforementioned evaluation of sustainability criteria in connection with strategic decisions of the Board of
Executive Directors.
In order to implement the climate protection targets and the measures contributing to them, appropriate
organizational structures have been put into place: The Corporate Center unit Corporate Environmental
Protection, Health, Safety & Quality, which reports to a member of the Board of Executive Directors,
develops Group-wide requirements and guidelines for collecting emissions and energy data and for
energy management. It conducts regular audits to monitor the implementation of and compliance with
internal and legal requirements by the BASF sites and Group companies. The Corporate Center unit
Corporate Strategy & Sustainability develops the BASF Group’s climate targets and emission reduction
levers for achieving them. The Net Zero Accelerator unit played a key role in driving the achievement of
our climate protection targets forward in the business year under review by accelerating and
implementing projects related to low-emission production technologies, circular economy and renewable
energy.5 The Global Procurement unit, together with Corporate Strategy & Sustainability, is responsible
for purchasing processes and procurement requirements with regard to our raw materials-related
targets. Global Procurement reports to the Chief Financial Officer; Corporate Strategy & Sustainability
and Net Zero Accelerator report to the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors. Once a year, the
Board of Executive Directors reports in detail to the Supervisory Board on the sustainability targets and
the status of target achievement. Group-wide Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have also been anchored
in the BASF Group’s steering and compensation systems as the most important nonfinancial key
performance indicators since 2020 (see also page 134).
Information of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board on sustainability
topics
The Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board are regularly briefed on sustainability
aspects. In the business year under review, these also included the process of the double materiality
assessment and its findings. The Audit Committee was also provided with details of significant impacts,
5 In accordance with the new corporate strategy, the Net Zero Accelerator unit was dissolved as of January 1, 2025, and its responsibilities embedded within Global
Procurement, Petrochemicals, Monomers, European Site & Verbund Management, Corporate Development, Group Research and Ressort I.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 130
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
risks and opportunities. Corporate Finance provides information twice a year on the aggregated
opportunity/risk exposure of the BASF Group. A direct reporting obligation applies for new individual
risks with an impact of €10 million or more on earnings, as well as for risks with significant impacts on
the sustainability targets and reputation of BASF. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee is informed
annually about short-term operational opportunities and risks as well as the risk management system
and its further development, and reports on these matters to the entire Supervisory Board. The
Corporate Development unit addresses strategic opportunities and risks annually to the Board of
Executive Directors and Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the Board of Executive Directors reports to the
Supervisory Board once a year on the implementation status of the sustainability targets and the
effectiveness of the strategies, measures and parameters decided upon.
Risk-specific monitoring and control systems, some of which are decentralized, have been set up for
each area identified in the risk portfolio. The results of the monitoring processes are incorporated into
regular risk reporting to the Risk Committee and the Board of Executive Directors.
The Corporate Audit unit is responsible for regularly auditing the effectiveness and appropriateness of
the risk management system, internal control system and the compliance management system. It reports
on these matters twice a year to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee addresses the effectiveness
and appropriateness of these systems as part of its monitoring activities.
In order to implement due diligence, the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board receive
regular reports. The Corporate Center unit Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality
reports to the Board of Executive Directors at the beginning of each business year on the Responsible
Care audits conducted in the previous year, as well as on the audit planning for the current year. In
meeting its due diligence obligation, the Board of Executive Directors also approved and implemented a
revised risk matrix in 2024 as part of its Process Safety Excellence Senior Project, the aim being to
improve process safety. Once a year, the Chief Financial Officer reports to the Supervisory Board’s Audit
Committee on the EHS audits conducted in the previous business year, as well as on the audit planning
for the current year.
The Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board dealt with the following significant impacts,
risks and opportunities of BASF during the reporting period:
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 131
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
List of significant impacts, risks and opportunities with which the management, control and supervisory
bodies, or their responsible committees, dealt with during the reporting period
Handled by the Audit
Material effects, risks, Handled by the Board of Executive Handled by the Supervisory Committee of the
opportunities Directors Board Supervisory Board
Mitigating climate change CATch update – standard evaluation Reduction of CO emissions Reduction of CO
2 2
methodology for CO reduction measures (Scope 1 & 2, Scope 3.1) emissions (Scope 1 & 2,
2
at BASF; Scope 3.1)
Net Zero Accelerator Senior Project –
further development of the organization;
Compensation strategy to safeguard
climate targets for 2030 and future
obligations in European emissions trading
Energy Acquisition of a 49% stake in German Geothermal energy as a heat
offshore wind farms N-6.6 and N-7.2 source for steam generation
from Vattenfall; for the Ludwigshafen site
Purchase of renewable energy;
Hydrogen technology
Water pollution Aqueous film-forming foam (AFFF) – class AFFF – class settlement
settlement with drinking water suppliers with drinking water
in the United States suppliers in the United
States
Resource inflows including Technologies for recyclability and Renewable raw materials in
resource utilization recyclate content; the BASF Verbund
Gasification;
Renewable carbon;
Renewable raw materials in the BASF
Verbund
Waste Use of recycled feedstocks Use of recycled feedstocks
Occupational safety and Responsible Care audits; EHS audits
health protection (S1) Process Safety Excellence Senior Project
Health and safety (S2) Human Rights Report 2023 Case reporting on
human rights
Child labor (S2) Human Rights Report 2023
Other social and economic Human Rights Report 2023
rights (S3)
Free, prior and informed Human Rights Report 2023
consent (S3)
Corporate culture Compliance Report 2023; Compliance in the BASF
Employee Voices results; Group
Political Relations and Advocacy policy
Protection of whistleblowers Compliance Report 2023 Compliance in the BASF
Group
Corruption and bribery (for Compliance Report 2023 Compliance in the BASF
example, prevention and Group
detection including training,
incidents)
Cross-thematic issues and other sustainability and risk management-related topics
Sustainability-related targets of the Update on BASF’s
divisions sustainability targets
BASF Sustainability Award 2024
Corporate strategy: sustainable
transformation; green transformation;
corporate goals; capital allocation
framework; green transformation
narrative, updated sustainability setup
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 132
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Handled by the Audit
Material effects, risks, Handled by the Board of Executive Handled by the Supervisory Committee of the
opportunities Directors Board Supervisory Board
Double materiality assessment in Double materiality assessment Material effects, risks
connection with ESRS implementation in connection with ESRS and opportunities for
implementation; BASF; CSRD/ESRS
CSRD/ESRS: Legal reporting requirements
requirements for the
Supervisory Board;
ESRS implementation at
BASF
Sustainable finance
Sales revenue with
Sustainable-Future
Solutions
Risk management at
BASF
Corporate Audit Activity Report 2023, Report on the work of
Audit Planning 2024 Corporate Audit
Internal control system
(ICS) of financial
reporting
For more details on information processes, see Opportunities and Risks from page 87 onward.
Competence of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board in monitoring
sustainability aspects
Sustainable and responsible activities are firmly enshrined in BASF’s corporate purpose, strategy,
objectives and business operations. For instance, BASF’s innovations, products and technologies help to
use natural resources more efficiently, meet the demand for food, enable climate-smart mobility, reduce
emissions and waste, or increase the efficiency of renewable energy. At the same time, BASF causes
CO emissions, uses water and sources raw materials from suppliers, which may involve a potential risk
2
of violating environmental, labor or social standards. Sustainability thus represents a material topic that
cuts across operating divisions and segments – and is dealt with by each member of the Board of
Executive Directors within their respective area of divisional responsibility. Therefore, sustainability-
related expertise is broadly anchored within the Board of Executive Directors.
In particular, the Board of Executive Directors possesses in-depth knowledge on the material topics of
climate protection and energy, and circular economy and resource use. Dr. Markus Kamieth, Dr. Michael
Heinz, Dr. Stephan Kothrade and Dr. Katja Scharpwinkel were directly involved in the Net Zero
Accelerator Senior Project, which focused on the provision of renewable energy, avoiding and managing
CO and safeguarding access to renewable raw materials. On account of his former position as a
2
member of the Executive Board of Wintershall Holding GmbH and his current role on the Board of
Harbour Energy plc, Dr. Dirk Elvermann possesses in-depth expertise in the energy sector. As Chief
Financial Officer, he also deals intensively with sustainability reporting in accordance with CSRD
requirements and is familiar with sustainable finance. On account of his many years of experience as the
Site Director of the Nanjing Verbund site, Dr. Stephan Kothrade is familiar with climate-related topics at
Verbund sites, as well as with the material sustainability topics of air and water pollution. Based on his
career in the Catalysts division, Anup Kothari also holds expertise in air pollution in addition to battery
recycling and the responsible sourcing of raw materials. Thanks to Dr. Markus Kamieth and Industrial
Relations Director Dr. Katja Scharpwinkel, the Board of Executive Directors has broad knowledge of
health and safety at its disposal, both in relation to the company’s own workforce and the workforce in
the value chain. By virtue of their many years of leadership experience within BASF, all members of the
Board of Executive Directors are fully conversant with corporate governance, culture and policy, and in
particular with the Code of Conduct.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 133
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The Supervisory Board as a whole possesses a broad spectrum of sustainability-related expertise, which
also, and in particular, encompasses the material sustainability topics for BASF identified as part of the
double materiality assessment. By dint of their decades of management experience, Dr. Kurt Bock and
Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer have in-depth knowledge of corporate governance and corporate
policy. Thanks to his research activities in the field of organic chemistry, Prof. Dr. Thomas Carell is fully
versed in the topic of substances of concern and substances of very high concern. Due to his former role
in the chemical industry, Liming Chen possesses expertise in the areas of air and water pollution. On
account of her position as chief financial officer of a publicly listed international company based in the
EU, the Chairwoman of the Audit Committee, Alessandra Genco, is fully conversant with sustainability
reporting and regularly deals with the new CSRD requirements as part of her duties. She also boasts
expertise in the circular economy and recycling processes. In terms of the monitoring of sustainability
aspects, Tamara Weinert contributes relevant expertise from her former management positions in the
energy sector, which is important for BASF, and her operational and strategic management experience in
the areas of water withdrawals and consumption, water discharges and circular solutions. As part of their
respective activities, all shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board regularly deal with climate
protection matters. Sinischa Horvat, Natalie Mühlenfeld and Michael Vassiliadis possess broad expertise
in the field of health and safety, both in relation to the company’s own workforce and the workforce in the
value chain. As part of their trade union and works council activities, all employee representatives on the
Supervisory Board have been dealing intensively with the topic of adequate wages for many years. In-
depth expertise on the topic of training and skills development is available among both the shareholder
representatives and employee representatives.
In addition, all members of the Supervisory Board attended an information event held by the company in
2024 concerning the reporting requirements pursuant to the CSRD and the process and results of the
double materiality assessment conducted at BASF. At this event, the identified material sustainability
topics for BASF were explained in detail. Further internal and external training events on sustainability
topics are planned for 2025. Where necessary, the members of the Supervisory Board also have the
option of consulting external experts on specific topics.
Compensation of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board
ESRS 2 GOV-3
Compensation of the Board of Executive Directors is based on the size, complexity and economic
position of the company. The structure of this compensation is designed to contribute to sustainable
business success and the achievement of strategic corporate goals. The amount of the variable
compensation is derived both from the achievement of short- and long-term financial and sustainability-
related targets and from the development of the share price and dividend per share (total shareholder
return). Since the 2024 business year, the short-term incentive (STI) has accounted for 25% and the
long-term incentive (LTI) for 41% of the total target compensation for a business year.
In addition to three financial targets, which account for a total of 75% of the STI, the STI for the 2024
business year also defines the following targets6: employee engagement and satisfaction (employee
engagement index), occupational and process safety and strategic projects. Of these, the first two are
sustainability-related. All three of these targets are equally weighted in the STI and together account for
25% of the total STI formula. This means that 16.7% of the entire STI formula is sustainability-related.
6 These targets are referred to as “nonfinancial targets” in the Compensation Report (available at basf.com/compensationreport) and account for 25% of the STI formula.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 134
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The LTI includes the reduction of CO emissions (Scope 1 and 2) of the BASF Group as one of three
2
equally weighted (33.3%7) strategic goals. These have been anchored as the most important nonfinancial
key performance indicator in the BASF Group’s steering and compensation systems since 2020.
The sustainability-related performance of the BASF Group is thus included in the compensation of the
Board of Executive Directors.
The compensation of the Supervisory Board does not include any variable components and is therefore
not tied to the achievement of targets.
The structure and amount of compensation for the Board of Executive Directors are set by the
Supervisory Board at the recommendation of the Personnel Committee. In the event of significant
changes, but at least every four years, the compensation system determined by the Supervisory Board is
submitted to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting for approval. Compensation for Supervisory Board
members is governed by the Statutes of BASF SE, which are decided upon by the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting (legally required by sections 87 and 87a AktG for the Board of Executive Directors and section
113 AktG for the Supervisory Board).
The Compensation Report in accordance with section 162 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
together with the assurance statement of the substantive and formal audit issued by the auditor and the
compensation system for the Board of Executive Directors are publicly available on the BASF website.
»The Compensation Report is available at basf.com/compensationreport.
»For more information on the compensation system for the Board of Executive Directors, see basf.com/compensation-system
Commitments to promote the participation of women in leadership positions at
BASF SE
ESRS 2 GOV-1
The supervisory board of a publicly listed European stock corporation (SE) that is composed of the same
number of shareholder and employee representatives must, according to section 17(2) of the SE
Implementation Act, consist of at least 30% women and 30% men. Since the 2018 Annual Shareholders’
Meeting, the Supervisory Board of BASF SE comprises four women, of whom two are shareholder
representatives and two are employee representatives, and eight men. The Supervisory Board’s
composition meets the statutory requirements.
Following the entry into force of the Act to Supplement and Amend the Regulations on Equal
Participation of Women and Men in Management Positions in the Private and Public Sector (FüPoG) on
August 12, 2021, if the management board of a listed company consists of more than three persons, at
least one woman and one man must be members of the management board (section 76 (3a) AktG). BASF
met this requirement in the reporting year. With Dr. Katja Scharpwinkel, there was one female Board
member. With six members of the Board of Executive Directors, this corresponds to a 16.7 percentage of
women.
In compliance with legal requirements of the FüPoG, the Board of Executive Directors decided on target
figures for the proportion of women at the two management levels below the Board of Executive
Directors of BASF SE. For the target-attainment period from January 1, 2022, to December 31, 2026, the
Board of Executive Directors resolved as targets the quotas achieved as of December 31, 2021: 20.0%
for the proportion of women in the management level directly below the Board and 23.2% for the level
below that.
7 The exact percentage influence on compensation depends on the target achievement. For more information, see the Compensation Report at basf.com/compensationreport.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 135
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
For more information on women in leadership positions in the BASF Group and on the inclusion of
diversity, including promotion of women, see page 276 onward.
»For more information on women in leadership positions in the BASF Group in Germany, see basf.com/diversity_and_inclusion
»The November 2015 Employee Participation Agreement relevant to the composition of the Supervisory Board is available at
basf.com/en/corporategovernance.
〈Shareholders’ rights〉
Shareholders exercise their rights of coadministration and supervision at the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting, which usually takes place within the first five months of the business year. The Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting elects half of the members of the Supervisory Board (shareholder representatives)
and, in particular, resolves on the formal discharge of the Board of Executive Directors and the
Supervisory Board, the distribution of profits, capital measures, the authorization of share buybacks,
changes to the Statutes and the selection of the auditor.
Each BASF SE share represents one vote. All of BASF SE’s shares are registered shares. Shareholders
are obliged to have themselves entered with their shares into the company share register and to provide
the information necessary for registration in the share register according to the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG). There are no registration restrictions and there is no limit to the number of shares
that can be registered to one shareholder. Only the persons listed in the share register are entitled to
vote as shareholders. Listed shareholders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting either personally, through a representative of their choice or through a company-appointed
proxy authorized by the shareholders to vote according to their instructions. Individual instructions are
only forwarded to the company on the morning of the day of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Until the
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2024, voting rights could be exercised according to shareholders’
instructions by company-appointed proxies until the beginning of the voting process. There are neither
voting caps to limit the number of votes a shareholder may cast nor special voting rights. BASF has fully
implemented the principle of “one share, one vote.” All shareholders entered in the share register are
entitled to participate in the Annual Shareholders’ Meetings, to have their say concerning any item on the
agenda and to request information about company issues insofar as this is necessary to make an
informed judgment about the item on the agenda under discussion. Registered shareholders are also
entitled to file motions pertaining to proposals for resolutions made by the Board of Executive Directors
and Supervisory Board at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and to contest resolutions of the meeting
and have them evaluated for their lawfulness in court. Shareholders who hold at least €500,000 of the
company’s share capital, a quota corresponding to 390,625 shares, are furthermore entitled to request
that additional items be added to the agenda of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
The 2023 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting resolved a series of amendments to the Statutes in connection
with the format of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and the participation options. Accordingly, the
Board of Executive Directors is authorized to hold the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting or an Extraordinary
Shareholders’ Meeting as a virtual meeting without the physical presence of shareholders or their proxies
at the venue of the meeting. This authorization for a period of two years is valid until May 8, 2025.
Like the 2023 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, the 2024 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting was held as an in-
person meeting with the shareholders physically present at the meeting venue.
»The current Statutes of BASF can be found at basf.com/en/corporategovernance.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 136
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Implementation of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC)
BASF advocates responsible corporate governance that focuses on sustainably increasing the value of
the company. BASF SE follows all of the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code
in the version dated April 28, 2022 (Code 2022), the version in force at the time of submitting the
Declaration of Conformity on December 19, 2024. In the same manner, BASF follows almost all of the
nonobligatory suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Code. Only suggestion A.7, whereby
the duration of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting should not exceed six hours, was not complied with by
BASF in 2024 due to the large number of questions asked at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
The joint Declaration of Conformity 2024 by the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board of
BASF SE is rendered on page 145.
»For more information on the Declaration of Conformity 2024, the implementation of the Code’s suggestions and the German Corporate
Governance Code, see basf.com/en/corporategovernance
Disclosures according to sections 289a and 315a of the German Commercial
Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Executive Directors
according to section 176(1) sentence 1 of the German Stock Corporation Act
(AktG)
Share capital and shares
As of December 31, 2024, the subscribed capital of BASF SE stood at €1,142,428,369.92, divided into
892,522,164 registered no-par-value shares. Each share entitles the holder to one vote at the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting. Restrictions on the right to vote or transfer shares do not exist. The same rights
and duties apply to all shares. According to the Statutes, shareholders are not entitled to receive share
certificates (issuance of share certificates). There are neither different classes of shares nor shares with
preferential voting rights.
Appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Executive Directors
The appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Executive Directors is legally governed by
the regulations in Article 39 of the SE Council Regulation, section 16 of the SE Implementation Act and
sections 84 and 85 AktG as well as Article 7 of the Statutes of BASF SE. Accordingly, the Supervisory
Board determines the number of members of the Board of Executive Directors (at least two), appoints
the members of the Board of Executive Directors and can nominate a chair as well as one or more vice
chairs. The members of the Board of Executive Directors are appointed for a maximum of five years. The
maximum initial term of appointment is three years. Reappointments are permissible. The Supervisory
Board can dismiss a member of the Board of Executive Directors if there is serious cause to do so.
Serious cause includes, in particular, a gross breach of the duties pertaining to the Board of Executive
Directors and a vote of no confidence by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board
decides on appointments and dismissals according to its own best judgment.
Amendments to the Statutes
According to Article 59(1) of the SE Council Regulation, amendments to the Statutes of BASF SE require
a resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting adopted with at least a two-thirds majority of the votes
cast, provided that the legal provisions applicable to German stock corporations under the German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG) do not stipulate or allow for larger majority requirements. In the case of
amendments to the Statutes, section 179(2) AktG requires a majority of at least three-quarters of the
subscribed capital represented. Pursuant to Article 12(6) of the Statutes of BASF SE, the Supervisory
Board is authorized to resolve on amendments to the Statutes that merely concern their wording. This
applies in particular to the adjustment of the share capital and the number of shares after the redemption
of repurchased BASF shares and after an issue of shares from authorized capital.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 137
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Authorized capital
By way of a resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024, the Board of Executive
Directors of BASF SE is authorized, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to increase, until April 24,
2029, on a one-off basis or in portions on a number of occasions, the company’s share capital by a total
of up to €300 million by issuing new shares against contributions in cash or in kind (authorized capital
2024). A right to subscribe to the new shares is to be granted to shareholders. This can also be achieved
by a credit institution acquiring the new shares with the obligation to offer these to shareholders (indirect
subscription right). The Board of Executive Directors is authorized to exclude the statutory subscription
right of shareholders to a maximum amount of a total of 10% of share capital in certain exceptional
cases that are defined in Article 5(8) of the BASF SE Statutes. This applies in particular if, for capital
increases in return for cash contributions, the issue price of the new shares is not substantially lower than
the stock market price of BASF shares and the total number of shares issued under this authorization
does not exceed 10% of the shares currently in issue or, in eligible individual cases, to acquire
companies or shareholdings in companies in exchange for surrendering BASF shares.
Conditional capital
By way of a resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2022, the share capital was
increased conditionally by up to €117,565,184 by issuing up to 91,847,800 new shares. The contingent
capital increase serves to grant shares to the holders of convertible bonds or warrants attached to bonds
with warrants of BASF SE or a subsidiary, which the Board of Executive Directors is authorized to issue
up to April 28, 2027, by way of a resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2022. A
right to subscribe to the bonds is to be granted to shareholders. The Board of Executive Directors is
authorized to exclude the shareholders’ subscription right in certain exceptional cases – as defined in
Article 5(9) of the BASF SE Statutes.
Authorization of share buybacks
At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2022, the Board of Executive Directors was authorized
to purchase up to 10% of the BASF shares in issue at the time of the resolution (10% of the company’s
share capital) until April 28, 2027. At the discretion of the Board of Executive Directors, the shares can be
bought back via the stock exchange, via a public purchase offer addressed to all shareholders, via a
public request to shareholders for the submission of offers to sell or by other means in accordance with
section 53a AktG. The Board of Executive Directors is authorized to sell the repurchased company
shares again: (a) on a stock exchange; (b) through an offer directed to all shareholders; (c) with the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to third parties by means other than via the stock exchange or
through an offer addressed to all shareholders in return for cash payment at a price that is not
significantly lower than the stock exchange price of a BASF share at the time of the sale; or (d) with the
approval of the Supervisory Board, to third parties for contributions in kind, particularly in connection
with the acquisition of companies, parts of companies or shares in companies (including increases in
shareholdings) or within the scope of corporate mergers. In the cases specified under (c) and (d), the
shareholders’ subscription right is excluded. The Board of Executive Directors is furthermore authorized
to retire the shares bought back and to reduce the share capital by the proportion of the share capital
accounted for by the retired shares.
Rights during a change of control
Bonds issued by BASF SE and its subsidiaries grant the bearer the right to request early repayment of
the bonds at nominal value if, after the date of issue of the bond, one person – or several persons acting
together – hold or acquire a volume of BASF SE shares that corresponds to more than 50% of the voting
rights (change of control as a result of a takeover bid) and one of the rating agencies named in the
bond’s terms and conditions withdraws its rating of BASF SE or the bond or reduces it to a
noninvestment grade rating within 120 days of the change of control event.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 138
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The compensation system for the Board of Executive Directors, which was approved by the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024, provides for the following in the event of a change of control: A
change of control is assumed when a shareholder informs BASF SE of a shareholding of at least 25% of
the BASF shares or the increase of such a holding. If the appointment to the Board of Executive Directors
is revoked by the Supervisory Board within one year of a change of control, the member of the Board of
Executive Directors will receive the compensation outstanding until the end of the regular term as a one-
off payment; however, the value of two annual compensations may not be exceeded. The compensation
system, on the other hand, does not provide for any special indemnity related to a change of control
should a member of the Board of Executive Directors unilaterally terminate the contract prematurely in
such a case.
Employees of BASF SE and its subsidiaries who are classed as senior executives of the BASF Group will
receive a severance payment if their contract of employment is terminated by the company within 18
months of a change of control event, unless the employees have given cause for the termination by
culpable conduct on their part. The employees whose service contracts have been terminated in such a
case will receive a maximum severance payment of 1.5 times the annual salary (fixed component)
depending on the number of months that have passed since the change of control event. The remaining
specifications stipulated in sections 289a and 315a HGB refer to situations that are not applicable to
BASF SE.
»For more information on bonds issued by BASF SE, see basf.com/bonds
〈Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance〉
BASF SE has taken out liability insurance that covers the activities of members of the Board of Executive
Directors and the Supervisory Board (directors’ and officers’ liability insurance). This insurance policy
provides for the level of deductibles of 10% of damages up to 1.5 times the fixed annual compensation
for the Board of Executive Directors as prescribed by section 93(2) sentence 3 AktG.
〈Share ownership by members of the Board of Executive Directors and the
Supervisory Board〉
No member of the Board of Executive Directors or the Supervisory Board owns shares in BASF SE and
related options or other derivatives that account for 1% or more of the share capital. Furthermore, the
total volume of BASF SE shares and related financial instruments held by all members of the Board of
Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board accounts for less than 1% of the shares issued by the
company.
»For more information on share dealings of members of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board, see
basf.com/en/directorsdealings
〈Share dealings of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board〉
(Directors’ dealings to be notified and publicly disclosed under Article 19(1) of the EU Market
Abuse Regulation 596/2014 (MAR))
As legally stipulated by Article 19(1) MAR, all members of the Board of Executive Directors and the
Supervisory Board as well as close family relatives are required to disclose the purchase or sale of
financial instruments of BASF SE (for example, shares, bonds, options, forward contracts, swaps) to the
German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht) and to
the company if transactions within the calendar year exceed the threshold of €20,000. In 2024, a total of
16 purchases by members of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board of BASF SE
and members of their families subject to disclosure were reported as directors’ dealings, involving
between 1,032 and 21,279 BASF shares or BASF ADRs (American Depositary Receipts). The price per
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 139
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
share was between €42.61 and €48.57. The volume of the individual transactions was between
€49,965.93 and €999,666.13. The disclosed securities transactions are published on BASF SE’s website.
»For more information on securities transactions reported in 2024, see basf.com/en/directorsdealings
〈Information on the auditor〉
BASF SE’s Supervisory Board, acting on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and after
conducting a tendering process in line with the EU Statutory Audit Regulation (Regulation [EU]
no. 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 16, 2014), resolved to propose to
the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in 2024 that Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt
am Main, Germany, be elected as auditor for BASF SE’s Financial Statements and the BASF Group’s
Consolidated Financial Statements for the 2024 business year, as well as for the auditor’s review of the
Half-Year Financial Report 2024. It was legally required to change the auditor starting from the 2024
business year, as the previous auditor KPMG had reached the maximum period for annual audits
shortened by the Financial Market Integrity Strengthening Act when auditing the 2023 Financial
Statements. The selection process pursuant to the EU Statutory Audit Regulation was conducted at an
early stage in order to give the new auditor enough time to complete nonaudit services, in this way
ensuring its independence and a seamless transition.
The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024, accepted the proposal of the Supervisory Board by
electing Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft as the auditor of the BASF Group Consolidated
Financial Statements and Individual Financial Statements of BASF SE for the 2024 business year, as well
as the Combined Management’s Report and the auditor’s review of the Half-Year Financial Report 2024.
The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee also engaged Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
to carry out the voluntary audit of the Nonfinancial Statement for 2024. Deloitte member firms also audit
the majority of BASF Group companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The auditor
responsible for the Consolidated Financial Statements is Michael Mehren. Auditor Stefan Dorissen is
responsible for the Individual Financial Statements. Information on the total fee paid to Deloitte and
auditing firms of the Deloitte group by BASF SE and other BASF Group companies for nonaudit services,
in addition to the auditing fee, can be found in Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 442.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 140
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Management and Supervisory Boards
ESRS 2 GOV-1
Board of Executive Directors
There were six members on the Board of Executive Directors as of December 31, 2024. Dr. Markus
Kamieth succeeded Dr. Martin Brudermüller as Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors on
conclusion of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024. Dr. Katja Scharpwinkel succeeded
Dr. Melanie Maas-Brunner as a member of the Board of Executive Directors, effective as of
February 1, 2024. Anup Kothari was appointed as an additional member of the Board of Executive
Directors, effective as of March 1, 2024.
Supervisory board Comparable
mandates within the German and non-
meaning of section 100(2) German
Responsibilities First Term of the German Stock supervisory
(2024 business year) appointed expires Corporation Act (AktG) bodies
Dr. Markus Kamieth Until February 29, 2024: 2017 2029 – –
Chairman of the Board Catalysts; Coatings;
of Executive Directors Dispersions & Resins;
(since April 25, 2024) Performance Chemicals;
Degree: Chemistry Greater China; South &
East Asia, ASEAN &
54 years old
Australia/New Zealand;
26 years at BASF
Mega Projects Asia
Since April 25, 2024:
Corporate Development;
Corporate Legal,
Compliance & Insurance;
Corporate Human
Resources; Corporate
Communications &
Government Relations;
Corporate Investor
Relations; Senior Project
Net Zero Accelerator
Dr. Dirk Elvermann Corporate Finance; 2023 2026 Wintershall Dea GmbH, Harbour Energy plcb
Degree: Law Corporate Audit; until September 23, 2024: (nonexecutive
Corporate Taxes & Duties; Wintershall Dea AG director; since
53 years old
Global Business Services; (member of the Supervisory September 3, 2024)
22 years at BASF
Global Digital Services; Board; until October 28,
Global Procurement; 2024)a
BASF Venture Capital
Michael Heinz Agricultural Solutions; 2011 2026 Wintershall Dea GmbH, –
Degree: MBA Nutrition & Health; Care until September 23, 2024:
Chemicals; North Wintershall Dea AG
61 years old
America; South America (member of the Supervisory
41 years at BASF
Board; until October 28,
2024)a
Anup Kothari Catalysts; Coatings; 2024 2027 – –
(since March 1, 2024) Dispersions & Resins;
Performance Chemicals
Degrees: Chemical
engineering, MBA
57 years old
26 years at BASF
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 141
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Supervisory board Comparable
mandates within the German and non-
meaning of section 100(2) German
Responsibilities First Term of the German Stock supervisory
(2024 business year) appointed expires Corporation Act (AktG) bodies
Dr. Stephan Kothrade Monomers; Performance 2023 2026 – –
Degree: Chemistry Materials; Petrochemicals;
Intermediates;
58 years old
Europe (until January 31,
30 years at BASF
2024); Group Research;
since March 1, 2024:
Greater China; South &
East Asia, ASEAN &
Australia/New Zealand;
Mega Projects Asia
Dr. Katja Scharpwinkel European Site & Verbund 2024 2027 BASF Coatings GmbH BASF Antwerpen
(since February 1, 2024) Management; Global (member of the Supervisory N.V. (Chairwoman
Engineering Services; Board until April 29, 2024)a, of the Supervisory
Degree: Chemistry
Corporate Environmental Wintershall Dea GmbH, Board; since
55 years old
Protection, Health, until September 23, 2024: February 1, 2024)
14 years at BASF Safety & Quality; Europe Wintershall Dea AG
(member of the Supervisory
Board; until October 28,
2024)a
Dr. Martin Corporate Development; 2006 2024 Mercedes-Benz Group AGb Accenture plcb
Brudermüller Corporate Legal, (member of the Supervisory (member of the
Chairman of the Board Compliance & Insurance; Board until May 7, 2024; Board of Directors
of Executive Directors Corporate Human Chairman of the and the Audit
(until April 25, 2024) Resources; Corporate Supervisory Board since Committee; since
Communications & May 8, 2024); January 31, 2024)
Degree: Chemistry
Government Relations; Mercedes-Benz AG
63 years old Corporate Investor (Mercedes-Benz Group AG
36 years at BASF Relations; Senior Project group company; member
Net Zero Accelerator of the Supervisory Board)
Dr. Melanie Maas- European Site & Verbund 2021 2024 – BASF Antwerpen
Brunner Management; Global N.V. (Chairwoman
(until January 31, 2024) Engineering Services; of the Supervisory
Corporate Environmental Board; until
Degree: Chemistry
Protection, Health, January 31, 2024)
56 years old
Safety & Quality
27 years at BASF
a Internal membership within the meaning of section 100(2) sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
b Publicly listed
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 142
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Supervisory Board
In accordance with the Statutes, the Supervisory Board of BASF SE comprises 12 members. The term of
office of the Supervisory Board commenced following the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on
April 25, 2024, in which the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board were elected. In
accordance with the applicable article of the Statutes as of the date of election, it terminates upon
conclusion of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting that resolves on the discharge of members of the
Supervisory Board for the third complete business year after the term of office commenced; this is the
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 28, 2028. At its meeting on November 30, 2023, the BASF Europa
Betriebsrat (BASF Works Council Europe) unanimously reelected the six employee representatives on the
Supervisory Board for the term of office beginning at the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on
April 25, 2024. The Supervisory Board comprises the following members (as of March 17, 2025):
Memberships of comparable
Member of the domestic and foreign
Supervisory Memberships of statutory supervisory bodies of
Board since supervisory boards in Germany commercial enterprises
Dr. Kurt Bock, Heidelberg, June 18, 2020 Bayerische Motoren Werke –
Germanya, b Aktiengesellschaftd (Vice
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Chairman, Chairman of the Audit
BASF SE Committee, member of the
Personnel and Nomination
Former Chairman of the Board of
Committees)
Executive Directors of BASF SE (until
May 2018)
Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer, April 29, 2022 Robert Bosch GmbHe (Chairman) Stadler Rail AGd (independent,
Stuttgart, Germanya, b nonexecutive member of the Board
Vice Chairman of the Supervisory of Directors)
Board of BASF SE
Managing partner, Robert Bosch
Industrietreuhand KG (RBIK)
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of
Robert Bosch GmbH
Sinischa Horvat, Limburgerhof, May 12, 2017 – –
Germanya, c
Vice Chairman of the Supervisory
Board of BASF SE
Chairman of the Works Council of
BASF SE, Ludwigshafen site, of the
BASF Group Works Council, and of the
BASF Works Council Europe
Prof. Dr. Thomas Carell, Munich, May 3, 2019 – –
Germanya, b
Professor of Organic Chemistry at
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich
Liming Chen, Beijing, Chinaa, b October 8, 2020 – ACWA Power Company SJSCd
Nonexecutive independent Board (nonexecutive independent Board
member of ACWA Power Company member since January 5, 2025)
SJSC
Tatjana Diether, Limburgerhof, May 4, 2018 – –
Germanya, c
Deputy Chairwoman of the Works
Council of BASF SE, Ludwigshafen
site, and member of the BASF Group
Works Council and of the BASF Works
Council Europe
Alessandra Genco, Rome, Italya, b April 29, 2022 – Elettronica SpAe (controlled interest
Chief Financial Officer of Leonardo SpA of Leonardo SpA)
André Matta, Großkarlbach, April 29, 2022 – –
Germanya, c
Member of the Works Council of
BASF SE, Ludwigshafen site, of the
BASF Group Works Council and of the
BASF Works Council Europe
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 143
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Memberships of comparable
Member of the domestic and foreign
Supervisory Memberships of statutory supervisory bodies of
Board since supervisory boards in Germany commercial enterprises
Natalie Mühlenfeld, Düsseldorf, April 29, 2022 3M Deutschland GmbHe –
Germanya, c (member);
Board secretary of the Board Division 1 Solventum Germany GmbHe
Politics/Transformation, IGBCE (member since November 8,
2024)
Michael Vassiliadis, Hannover, August 1, 2004 Steag GmbHe (member); –
Germanyc RAG Aktiengesellschafte (Vice
Chairman of the IGBCE Chairman);
Henkel AG & Co. KGaAd
(member);
Vivawest GmbHe (member)
Tamara Weinert, Fairhope, April 25, 2024 – –
Alabamaa, b
President and Chief Executive Officer
of the Business Area Americas and
member of the Leadership Team of
Outokumpu Corporation
Peter Zaman, Antwerp, Belgiuma, c April 29, 2022 – –
Secretary of the Works Council of
BASF Antwerpen N.V.
Members of the Supervisory Board May 2, 2014 – Zurich Insurance Group AGd
who stepped down from the (independent, nonexecutive
Supervisory Board on April 25, 2024: member of the Board of Directors
Dame Alison Carnwath DBE, Exeter, until April 11, 2024);
Englanda, b Zürich Versicherungs-Gesellschaft
Senior Advisor, Evercore Partners AG (Zurich Insurance Group AG
group company)e (independent,
nonexecutive member of the Board
of Directors until April 11, 2024);
PACCAR Inc.d (independent
member of the Board of Directors);
Coller Capital Ltd.e (nonexecutive
member of the Board of Directors);
Asda Group Limitede (nonexecutive
member of the Board of Directors
and Chairwoman of the Audit
Committee);
EG Group Holdings Limitede
(nonexecutive member of the
Board of Directors and
Chairwoman of the Audit
Committee)
a Classified by the Supervisory Board as an “independent” member of the Supervisory Board (see page 122 for the criteria used to determine independence)
b Shareholder representative
c Employee representative
d Publicly listed
e Not publicly listed
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 144
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Declaration of Conformity Pursuant to Section 161 AktG
Declaration of Conformity 2024 of the Board of Executive Directors and the
Supervisory Board of BASF SE
The Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board of BASF SE hereby declare
pursuant to section 161 AktG (German Stock Corporation Act)
The recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code as
amended on April 28, 2022, published by the Federal Ministry of Justice on June 27, 2022, in the official
section of the Federal Gazette are complied with and have been complied with since the submission of
the last Declaration of Conformity of December 2023.
Ludwigshafen, December 2024
The Supervisory Board The Board of Executive Directors
of BASF SE of BASF SE
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 145
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Declaration of Corporate Governance
Declaration of Corporate Governance in accordance with sections 289f and
315d HGB
The Combined Declaration of Corporate Governance of BASF SE and the BASF Group, pursuant to
sections 289f HGB and 315d HGB, comprises the subchapters Corporate Governance Report including
the description of the diversity concept for the composition of the Board of Executive Directors and the
Supervisory Board (except for the disclosures pursuant to sections 289a and 315a HGB), G1 Business
Conduct and Declaration of Conformity Pursuant to Section 161 AktG.
Pursuant to section 317(2) sentence 6 HGB, the auditor checked that the disclosures according to
section 315d HGB in conjunction with section 289f(2) HGB were made.
BASF Report 2024 Corporate Governance 146
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
[1.3 (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement]
We bring our corporate purpose – We create chemistry for a sustainable future – to life by integrating
sustainability into our strategy, our business, and our assessment, steering and compensation systems.
We want to secure our long-term success with products, solutions and technologies that create value
added for our customers, the environment and society.
ESRS Index
ESRS 2 SBM-3 ESRS 2 IRO-2
European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) Disclosure Requirements covered by the
Combined Management’s Report
ESRS Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Requirement Page
ESRS 2 General Disclosures 150
BP-1 General basis for the preparation of sustainability statements In all chapters and on
page 150
BP-2 Disclosures in relation to specific circumstances In all chapters and on
page 150
GOV-1 The role of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies From page 111a onward
as well as on pages
118a, 129a, 135a, 141a
and 318
GOV-2 Information provided to and sustainability matters addressed by the From page 111a, 118a
undertaking’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies and 129a onward
GOV-3 Integration of sustainability-related performance in incentive schemes 134a and 184
GOV-4 Statement on due diligence 154
GOV-5 Risk management and internal controls over sustainability reporting 155 and 88a
SBM-1 Strategy, business model and value chain 15a, 18a, 22a and 157
SBM-2 Interests and views of stakeholders In all chapters and on
page 163
SBM-3 Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with In all chapters and on
strategy and business model page 167
IRO-1 Description of processes to identify and assess material impacts, risks In all chapters and on
and opportunities page 167
IRO-2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS covered by the undertaking’s On this page and on
sustainability statement pages 155, 167 and 324
MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters In all chapters and on
page 151
MDR-A Actions and resources in relation to material sustainability matters In all chapters and on
page 152
MDR-M Metrics in relation to material sustainability matters In all chapters and on
page 150
MDR-T Tracking effectiveness of policies and actions through targets In all chapters and on
page 151
E1 Climate Change 178
E1-1 Transition plan for climate change mitigation 185
E1-2 Policies related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 182
E1-3 Actions and resources in relation to climate change policies 189
E1-4 Targets related to climate change mitigation and adaptation 194
E1-5 Energy consumption and mix 198
E1-6 Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 200
E1-7 GHG removals and GHG mitigation projects financed through carbon 197
credits
E1-8 Internal carbon pricing 203
E2 Pollutionb 205
E2-1 Policies related to pollution 207
E2-2 Actions and resources related to pollution 211
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 147
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) Disclosure Requirements covered by the
Combined Management’s Report
ESRS Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Requirement Page
E2-3 Targets related to pollution 215
E2-4 Pollution of air, water and soil 216
E2-5 Substances of concern and substances of very high concern 218
E3 Water and marine 221
resourcesc
E3-1 Policies related to water and marine resources 222
E3-2 Actions and resources related to water and marine resources 225
E3-3 Targets related to water and marine resources 227
E3-4 Water consumption 229
E4 Biodiversity and 231
Ecosystems
E4-1 Transition plan and consideration of biodiversity and ecosystems in 233
strategy and business model
E4-2 Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems 239
E4-3 Actions and resources related to biodiversity and ecosystems 241
E4-4 Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems 243
E4-5 Impact metrics related to biodiversity and ecosystems change 245
E5 Resource Use and Circular 246
Economy
E5-1 Policies related to resource use and circular economy 247
E5-2 Actions and resources related to resource use and circular economy 248
E5-3 Targets related to resource use and circular economy 252
E5-4 Resource inflows 253
E5-5 Resource outflows 255
S1 Own Workforce 270
S1-1 Policies related to own workforce 272
S1-2 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives 279
about impacts
S1-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected 281
communities to raise concerns
S1-4 Taking action on material impacts on own workforce, and approaches 281
to mitigating material risks and pursuing material opportunities related
to own workforce, and effectiveness of those actions
S1-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing 286
positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
S1-6 Characteristics of the undertaking’s employees 288
S1-10 Adequate wages 290
S1-14 Health and safety metrics 290
S1-17 Incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts 290
S2 Workers in the Value Chain 292
S2-1 Policies related to value chain workers 293
S2-2 Processes for engaging with value chain workers about impacts 296
S2-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for value chain 296
workers to raise concerns
S2-4 Taking action on material impacts on value chain workers, and 297
approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to value chain workers, and effectiveness of those
actions
S2-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing 301
positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
S3 Affected Communities 303
S3-1 Policies related to affected communities 304
S3-2 Processes for engaging with affected communities about impacts 308
S3-3 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for affected 310
communities to raise concerns
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 148
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) Disclosure Requirements covered by the
Combined Management’s Report
ESRS Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Requirement Page
S3-4 Taking action on material impacts on affected communities, and 311
approaches to managing material risks and pursuing material
opportunities related to affected communities, and effectiveness of
those actions
S3-5 Targets related to managing material negative impacts, advancing 315
positive impacts, and managing material risks and opportunities
G1 Business Conduct 317
G1-1 Business conduct policies and corporate culture 319
G1-3 Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery 318 and 322
G1-4 Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery 323
a Reference to chapter outside of the Sustainability Statement
b Name of chapter in BASF Report 2024: E2 Pollution Prevention
c Name of chapter in BASF Report 2024: E3 Water
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 149
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
General Disclosures
ESRS 2 BP-1 ESRS 2 BP-2
The general bases of preparation for the Sustainability Statement are described in About This Report (see
page 6). Information about corporate governance disclosures relating to sustainability (Disclosure
Requirements GOV-1, GOV-2 and GOV-3 of the ESRSs) is provided in the Corporate Governance Report
from page 111 onward.
Material topics along the value chain form the focal points of our reporting and define the reporting
boundaries. In identifying, prioritizing and validating material sustainability-related topics, we follow the
principle of double materiality, taking into consideration financial materiality and impact materiality. The
following chapters deal with the topics, subtopics and sub-subtopics that were found to be material
within the meaning of the ESRSs upon performing the double materiality assessment. For more
information on the materiality assessment, see page 167 onward.
In some cases, we have made use of incorporation by reference to minimize redundancies. An overview
of the data points incorporated by reference can be found on page 147. As permitted by ESRS 1
paragraph 7.7, we have opted not to disclose information relating to research and development (R&D),
know-how or the results of innovation that has commercial value and whose publication would result in a
competitive disadvantage for BASF. Time horizons specified in our Sustainability Statement are used in
accordance with the ESRS definitions.
We discuss the impacts, risks and opportunities identified in our double materiality assessment in the
sections concerning the respective topics. The section on opportunity and risk management also
includes risk pursuant to Disclosure Requirement GOV-5 and presents disclosures on our opportunity
and risk management system and internal controls of sustainability reporting (from page 87 onward).
When individual sustainability metrics have been estimated based on indirect sources, such as sector-
average data or other proxies, we provide more information in the respective chapters. This is also the
case when metrics have been adjusted compared with prior reporting periods or when they are subject
to measurement uncertainty. Due to rounding, individual figures may not add up exactly to the totals
shown and percentages may not correspond exactly to the figures shown. As the calculations of our
Scope 3 emissions (reported in E1 Climate Change from page 195 onward) are largely based on models
and statistics, they are subject to a high degree of uncertainty.
Our data on environmental protection and safety is collected based on the recommendations of the
International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) and the European Chemical Industry Council
(CEFIC). Data relating to the environment, health and safety (EHS) and to human resources (HR) is
recorded in a central database. The EHS data is captured for each site and company based at the
respective site; the HR data is captured for each company. Environmental data (on emissions or water
volumes, for example) is determined by measurements, calculations or estimations according to the
regulatory requirements or legal obligations. The data collection method selected depends on technical
limitations (high temperatures do not always allow the use of sensors for direct measurement), the ability
to derive data from data already collected, and the proportionality of efforts to take measurements in
relation to the emission in question (such as volume flow, operating hours). To increase the robustness of
our data, we apply a two-step process in which sustainability data is first recorded and then validated in
accordance with the principle of dual control. Additional plausibility checks are carried out by the
responsible Corporate Center units, after which the data is evaluated based on the respective
consolidation criteria and aggregated in the database.
The reporting period is the 2024 business year. We include relevant data made available up to
preparation of this report by the Board of Executive Directors at the accounts meeting on March 17,
2025 (editorial deadline). We have explained any changes to calculations of metrics or targets compared
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 150
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
with the previous year, or any changes we have made to correct calculation errors, in the respective
context. Whenever metrics, or their methods of measuring or calibrations are additionally validated by
external sources, we indicate this in the respective chapter. In the absence of any such indication, the
metrics or methods were not subjected to external validation beyond the voluntary audit of this report. In
general, the targets reported are selected voluntarily. Whenever targets are mandatory under a specific
piece of legislation, this has been noted in the respective context. If stakeholders were involved in
defining a target, we indicate this in the respective context. In the absence of any such indication, this
means that no stakeholders were involved in the target definition process.
The scope of consolidation applicable to financial reporting also applies to sustainability reporting. We
present general disclosures on the consolidation principles applied to sustainability reporting and
additional disclosures on the content and structure of this report and the forward-looking statements and
forecasts made in Overview – About This Report and the Combined Management’s Report on page 6.
The figures reported on employees in S1 Own Workforce include all individuals working at an entity
included in the scope of consolidation of the BASF Group as of December 31, 2024. Any deviations of
specific metrics from that reference framework have been noted. We report all data concerning the
worldwide production sites of BASF SE, its fully consolidated subsidiaries and its proportionately
consolidated joint operations on a topic-specific basis in the sections covering environmental and social
topics. Subsidiaries that are fully consolidated in the Group Financial Statements in which BASF SE
holds an interest of less than 100% are included in full in environmental reporting. In the case of
proportionally consolidated joint operations and equity-accounted joint ventures over which BASF has
operating control, the ESRS data points collected on the basis of operating control are taken into
account in full, regardless of BASF’s equity interest. Data on work-related injuries at all sites of BASF SE
and its subsidiaries as well as joint operations and joint ventures in which we have authority in terms of
safety management is compiled worldwide, regardless of our equity interest, and reported in full. Unless
otherwise indicated, data on social responsibility and transportation safety refers to the BASF Group’s
scope of consolidation.
In accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the supplementary delegated acts, the
Sustainability Statement includes the proportion of the Group’s taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned
sales revenue, capital expenditures (including acquisitions and excluding goodwill in accordance with the
EU taxonomy) and operating expenditures for the 2024 business year for the six climate targets (“climate
change mitigation,” “climate change adaptation,” “sustainable use and protection of water and marine
resources,” “transition to a circular economy,” “pollution prevention and control” and “protection and
restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems”).
Policies are adopted by the Board of Executive Directors and define the principles surrounding a topic;
requirements govern how a policy is implemented. Information on how we monitor compliance with
policies and requirements is provided in the context of the respective chapters. The table below provides
an overview of the general disclosures concerning application of BASF policies, which are mentioned in
multiple parts of the Sustainability Statement. When developing and implementing policies, we only
involve stakeholders in exceptional cases. In the case of standards dealing with codetermination-relevant
topics, employee representatives are involved in accordance with local conditions. We have explained
any such occurrences in the context of the respective chapter. If no such explanation is made, then
stakeholders have not been engaged regarding the development or execution of the policy. Our policies
are accessible to employees via an internal platform. We make the relevant requirements and policies
available to external target groups via our website.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 151
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our sustainability management is based on centrally defined global targets and policies and often
decentralized actions, projects or initiatives that we implement in order to drive continuous optimization
and development in the respective areas. Actions in accordance with ESRS requirements are designated
as such in the respective chapters. For projects or initiatives which do not fall under the definition of the
ESRSs, we have opted to not make the minimum disclosures.
General disclosures on key policies
Impact on the value
Requirement/policy Scope of application Accountable entity chain Applicability
BASF Policy Statement BASF’s voluntary commitment to respect Corporate Legal, Entire value chain Global
on Human Rights internationally recognized human rights in Compliance and
its own activities and to reinforce such Insurance
commitment in its relationships with
business partners. The BASF Group’s
Policy Statement on Human Rights defines
how BASF fulfills its responsibility in
cooperation with the relevant stakeholder
groups.
BASF Code of Conduct BASF’s Code of Conduct lays out the Corporate Legal, Entire value chain Global
framework to which all employees Compliance and
worldwide must adhere in order to comply Insurance
with applicable laws and internal
requirements as well as ethical business
practices.
Compliance The CMS policy supplements the Code of Corporate Legal, Entire value chain Global
management system Conduct and describes the actions BASF Compliance and
(CMS) takes to prevent noncompliant behavior. Insurance
BASF Human Rights The policy regulates the overarching Corporate Legal, Entire value chain Global
Management Policy human rights management at BASF and Compliance and
its overall structure, including roles, Insurance
responsibilities and obligations.
Human Rights Due The requirement sets forth a multilevel Corporate Legal, Entire value chain Global
Diligence for Third-Party approach to ensuring human rights due Compliance and
Workers diligence with regard to employees of Insurance
third-party companies.
BASF’s Position on This voluntary commitment by BASF Corporate Entire value chain Global
Water Protection defines how we protect water when Environmental
purchasing raw materials, operating our Protection, Health,
sites and when our products are used. Safety & Quality
BASF’s Position on This voluntary commitment by BASF Corporate Entire value chain Global
Forest Protection defines how we protect forests when Sustainability
procuring raw materials, operating our
sites and when our products are used.
Responsible Care BASF’s Responsible Care Management Board of Executive Own production Global
Management Systema System consists of several policies that Directors of
regulate health, safety and environmental BASF SE
protection in accordance with the
Responsible Care® Global Charter.
Global standards on The standards govern BASF’s treatment Corporate Own production Global
CO emissions and of CO emissions and energy data plus Environmental
2 2
energy data, energy the aspects of energy efficiency and Protection, Health,
efficiency and energy energy policies. Safety & Quality
concepts (part of the
Responsible Care
Management System)
Global standards on The global standards define BASF’s Corporate Own production Global
environmental approach to emissions to air and water, to Environmental
protection (part of the waste and to the introduction of Protection, Health,
Responsible Care sustainable water management. Safety & Quality
Management System)
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 152
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
General disclosures on key policies
Impact on the value
Requirement/policy Scope of application Accountable entity chain Applicability
Global standards on The global standards govern the operation Corporate Own production Global
process safety, of our sites, emergency preparedness and Environmental
emergency emergency response. Protection, Health,
management and crisis Safety & Quality
management (part of
the Responsible Care
Management System)
Global standards on The global standards govern the safe use Corporate Entire value chain Global
product, transportation of our products. Environmental
and distribution safety Protection, Health,
(part of the Responsible Safety & Quality
Care Management
System)
Procurement The requirement governs BASF’s Corporate Upstream value chain Global
requirement procurement process. Development
Risk-based sustainability As part of our procurement requirement, Corporate Upstream value chain Global
management (part of risk-based sustainability management Development
the procurement defines how BASF deals with risks in the
requirement) procurement process.
Supplier Code of In the Supplier Code of Conduct, BASF Global Upstream value chain Global
Conduct (part of risk- defines its expectations regarding Procurement;
based sustainability environmental, labor and social standards any units with
management) in the supply chain. purchasing activities
Principles for the These principles describe how BASF Corporate Upstream value chain Global
responsible sources renewable raw materials Development
procurement of responsibly.
renewable raw materials
BASF Palm Sourcing The policy defines the process of Care Chemicals Upstream value chain Global
Policy purchasing palm-based raw materials in
BASF’s Care Chemicals division.
Requirements for These requirements stipulate how Product Corporate Upstream and Global
Product Carbon Carbon Footprints are calculated and how Development downstream value
Footprints and eco- eco-efficiency analyses should be chain
efficiency analyses performed, thereby laying out the
framework for the control and
measurement of sustainability factors at
BASF.
Third-Party Compliance This policy governs compliance Corporate Downstream value Global
Due Diligence requirements for our business partners. Compliance chain
a The core of our Responsible Care Management System is our Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality (EHSQ) Policy, for which BASF’s Board of Executive
Directors is accountable. The Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit in the Corporate Center is responsible for specific monitoring activities and
for handling corporate governance tasks.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 153
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Corporate due diligence
ESRS 2 GOV-4
We are committed to doing business in a responsible and respectful manner, as exemplified by our
corporate values and our global standards. Our actions are guided by applicable laws and regulations; in
some cases, our voluntary commitments go beyond what is required. We also adhere to internationally
recognized principles.
We respect and promote
– The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations (U.N.) and the two U.N. Human
Rights Covenants
– The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact
– The core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Tripartite Declaration
of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy
– The U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
– The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
– The International Council of Chemical Associations’ Responsible Care® Global Charter
– The German Corporate Governance Code
We stipulate binding rules for our employees with our standards and requirements that apply throughout
the Group. Our aim is to prevent compliance violations from the outset through compulsory training for
all employees and additional offerings for leaders. The Corporate Audit unit continuously monitors
compliance with these requirements. The head of our Corporate Legal, Compliance & Insurance unit also
acts as Chief Human Rights Officer and oversees the overarching risk management system with regard
to human rights issues.
We fulfill our responsibility to behave in accordance with international and social standards largely in
three ways: through our Compliance Program, including our Code of Conduct and Compliance Hotline;
through close dialog with stakeholders; and through the global management process to respect
international labor and social standards.
We regularly assess our performance in environmental protection, health and safety as part of our
Responsible Care Management System, which also covers audits, for example.
We expect our business partners to comply with prevailing laws, regulations and internationally
recognized principles. We have clearly defined our expectations in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We
monitor our business partners in the area of sales for potential compliance risks based on our global
Business Partner Due Diligence requirements using a checklist, a questionnaire and an internet-based
analysis. The results are then documented. If business partners are not prepared to answer the
questionnaire, we do not enter into a business relationship with them. We have established control
mechanisms accordingly.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 154
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
More information on our due diligence requirements is provided in the chapters of this Sustainability
Statement specified below (see the following table):
Additional information on corporate due diligence in this report
Corporate Governance From page 111 onward
E1 Climate Change From page 178 onward
E2 Pollution Prevention From page 205 onward
E3 Water From page 221 onward
E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems From page 231 onward
E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy From page 246 onward
S1 Own Workforce From page 270 onward
S2 Workers in the Value Chain From page 292 onward
S3 Affected Communities From page 303 onward
G1 Business Conduct From page 317 onward
ESRS 2 IRO-2
Our double materiality assessment (see page 167) evaluated the topic category S4 Consumers and End
Users – as not material given that only a very small portion of our products are sold directly to end users.
We provide material information on product safety and product stewardship in E2 Pollution Prevention.
Internal control processes in relation to sustainability reporting
ESRS 2 GOV-5
Topic-specific opportunities and risks (gross risks) are explained in the subchapters of the Sustainability
Statement. The opportunities and risks relevant to our opportunity and risk management processes (net
risks) are reported on in Opportunities and Risks (from page 87 onward).
Our internal control system (ICS) for sustainability reporting also covers the Nonfinancial Statement
pursuant to section 315b of the German Commercial Code (HGB). The ICS was designed to reflect the
COSO Internal Control – Integrated Framework (ICIF-2013) from the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). That document is an integral part of another
framework published by COSO upon which our risk management system is based: Enterprise Risk
Management – Integrated Framework (ERMIF-2004).
The main components of BASF’s internal control system for sustainability reporting are thus:
– Internal control environment
– Risk assessment
– Control activities
– Information and communication
– Monitoring activities regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of the internal control system
The components are reflected to varying degrees depending on the topic and the risk assigned to that
topic.
We also apply the method used in financial reporting to monitor how Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO
2
emissions – which are among the most important key performance indicators used in managing the
BASF Group – are recorded and reported, including with regard to the appropriateness and effectiveness
of the performance indicators (for more information, see page 92).
Compared with the control system used in financial reporting, the control systems used in other areas of
sustainability reporting have a lower degree of formalization. As a rule, they include organizational
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 155
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
security precautions such as compliance with basic principles of transparency, dual control and
segregation of duties as well as limited access to information based on the principle of necessity,
deployment of sufficiently qualified employees and adequate IT systems. The design of the internal
control system depends on the topic at hand and is the responsibility of the units involved in data
collection, data preparation and reporting. The controls operate at both management and process level.
The responsible Corporate Center units monitor the appropriateness and effectiveness of the internal
control systems designed for specific topics. To this end, the individual units choose different
approaches depending on the subject area, such as evaluating questionnaires on the effectiveness of the
internal control system, conducting sample tests to validate the implementation and effectiveness of
internal controls or monitoring compliance-related key indicators.
The appropriateness and effectiveness of the financial reporting process are communicated to the Board
of Executive Directors and the Audit Committee (as the responsible organ of the Supervisory Board) to
inform them of any control deficiencies with respect to reporting on Scope 1 or Scope 2 CO emissions.
2
This communication includes the control deficiencies identified with respect to other sustainability topics
that we report on as well as the actions taken to compensate for or eliminate the deficiencies.
We have begun compiling a central risk register to enable risk to be accounted for consistently in the
internal control systems of all relevant BASF Group entities and to ensure proper sustainability reporting.
The register contains a list of generic risks that could arise from incorrect collection or preparation of the
necessary information and reporting with regard to ESRS guidelines. The following risks are included:
– Incomplete or incorrect implementation of methods for performing the double materiality assessment
as required by ESRS 1 paragraph 3 for the purpose of identifying, selecting and prioritizing the
sustainability topics to be reported on
– Incorrect calculation of reporting boundaries under the ESRSs, which in the case of operational control
may deviate from the reporting thresholds used in financial reporting as determined by concept of
financial control
– Insufficient or untimely availability of data on the upstream or downstream value chain
– With respect to the collection and processing of information, the risk of the information being
incomplete, inaccurate or invalid or being intentionally or unintentionally manipulated due to having
allowed unrestricted access to information collection devices (such as measuring equipment) or IT
systems
– General risk associated with operating and managing access to the IT systems used to prepare the
Sustainability Statement
– Risk associated with failing to include in the Combined Management’s Report the qualitative data
points required by ESRS for proper sustainability reporting as listed in ESRS 2, Appendix B.
If the materialization of risk cannot be avoided, the risks are addressed as part of the internal control
system. In this context, the risk register serves as the basis for performing a systematic analysis of the
existing internal control system with the aim of identifying potential gaps in the ICS for sustainability
reporting and taking compensatory measures to hedge the risks until they can be eliminated. The units
that collect or process the reporting data are responsible for designing and implementing the controls
put in place to minimize risk.
We are currently developing a concept aimed at enabling uniform, systematic, Group-wide assessment
of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the internal control system with respect to all sustainability
topics on which we report. The concept is expected to be implemented gradually from 2025 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 156
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Controls are also in place. Critical reviews are held at various management levels during the draft stage
of preparing the BASF Report, including the Board of Executive Directors. In addition, BASF’s
Sustainability Reporting and Controlling Committee acts as a central decision-maker with regard to
financial and management accounting issues arising in relation to sustainability reporting. In 2024, the
Corporate Audit unit of the Corporate Center additionally audited the implementation of ESRS guidelines
in BASF’s reporting process.
Strategy
ESRS 2 SBM-1
Our business
Our ambition is to be the preferred chemical company for enabling our customers’ green transformation.
We aim to grow profitably and create value for our shareholders with our broad portfolio as well as our
product and process innovations. Simultaneously, we are driving the change toward a stronger
performance culture. We have incorporated sustainability topics into our strategy and business as well as
into our assessment, steering and compensation systems. This principle is also embedded in our
corporate purpose: We create chemistry for a sustainable future.
BASF supplies products and services to around 74,000 customers from various sectors in almost every
country in the world. The majority of our customer portfolio spans the spectrum from large multinationals
to medium-sized enterprises. Only a few of our products are marketed to end users directly. However,
we focus on a business-to-business model and on being a partner for a wide range of downstream
industries throughout the world. Our operating divisions are grouped into the Chemicals, Materials,
Industrial Solutions, Nutrition & Care, Surface Technologies and Agricultural Solutions segments (see
page 61).
The Chemicals segment supplies BASF’s other segments and customers with basic chemicals and
intermediates. In the Materials segment, we produce advanced materials and their precursors for the
plastics and plastics processing industries. The Industrial Solutions segment develops and markets
ingredients and additives for industrial applications. The Nutrition & Care segment produces ingredients
and solutions for consumer applications such as human and animal nutrition, cleaning agents and
personal care. In the Surface Technologies segment, we produced automotive OEM and refinish
coatings, surface treatments, battery materials and catalysts until the end of 2024 (for more information
on the future composition of the segment, see page 12). The Agricultural Solutions segment is an
integrated solutions provider of seeds, traits, crop protection products and digital solutions for the
agricultural sector.
Our business operations focus on the chemical industry. The table on page 158 lists our sales revenue by
sector. Taxonomy-aligned sales revenue is presented separately under EU Taxonomy from page 257
onward. None of our activities involve controversial weapons. We supply individual solutions for tobacco
cultivation via the general product portfolio of our Agricultural Solutions segment. We are involved in the
fossil fuel sector through our shareholdings in Wintershall Dea GmbH and Harbour Energy plc, London,
United Kingdom. On September 3, 2024, the sale of Wintershall Dea’s exploration and production (E&P)
business, excluding Russia-related activities, to Harbour Energy, agreed in December 2023, was
completed. The E&P business consists of production and development assets, exploration rights and
Wintershall Dea’s carbon storage licenses. In exchange, Wintershall Dea shareholders – BASF (72.7%)
and LetterOne (27.3%) – received a cash consideration totaling $1.78 billion (BASF share: $1.29 billion),
including a purchase price adjustment, and new shares issued by Harbour Energy equating to a total
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 157
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
shareholding of 54.5% in the enlarged Harbour company (BASF share: 39.6%). With this divestiture,
BASF took the decisive step toward achieving final separation from the oil and gas business (see
page 33). Wintershall Dea contributed €729 million to net income from shareholdings in 2024 (2023:
€130 million) (see page 344).
We generated sales revenue of €65,260 million in the 2024 business year (see page 46). The following
table shows the distribution of sales revenue among our customers’ sectors:
BASF sales revenue in 2024 by sector
>20% Chemicals and plastics
10–20% Transportation and automotive
10–20% Agriculture
10–20% Consumer goods
<10% Construction industry
<10% Electronics
<10% Energy and raw materials
<10% Health and nutrition
We work with over 70,000 Tier 1 suppliers worldwide. They supply us with important raw materials,
chemicals, investment goods and consumables, and perform a range of services. More information on
our supplier relationships is provided in S2 Workers in the Value Chain from page 292 onward. An
overview of our workforce by region can be found in S1 Own Workforce on page 288. An overview of our
business model and inputs, outputs and impacts on our most important stakeholders, as well as of our
value chain, is described in a visual representation (How We Create Value) from page 15 onward.
Our sustainability strategy
In September 2024, we communicated our “Winning Ways” strategy both internally and externally. The
strategy revolves around our ambition to be the preferred chemical company to enable our customers’
green transformation (see page 18). To support this ambition, we supply our customers with products
that contribute to sustainability, either through their use by the customer or through their reduced carbon
footprint (see page 194). Many of our customers have set their own sustainability-related targets and are
in the process of adapting their business models to reduce their emissions. They are doing so at various
speeds and with varying priorities. Our customers also differ in terms of their willingness to pay higher
prices for more sustainable products. Against this backdrop, we have adjusted our transformation
approach: We want to prioritize projects where we already see rising demand among customers and a
willingness to pay for more sustainable products (see page 22). We are also focusing on selected
transformation projects that impact our license to operate (see page 160). In line with these principles,
we plan to steadily advance our initiatives aimed at transitioning BASF to climate neutrality. We have
increasingly invested in renewable energies to operate our plants. Our next step will be to focus on using
more bio-based and recycled feedstocks in our existing plants. This will enable us to develop an
increasing number of products with a reduced carbon footprint for our customers. As the markets for
more sustainable solutions continue to grow, we intend to scale up and apply new technologies that we
are currently piloting.
We continue to adhere to our global sustainability-related targets, which include using our TripleS
method (Sustainable-Solution Steering) to streamline our portfolio. We have defined a new circular
economy target: By 2030, we want to achieve €10 billion in sales revenue from products that contribute
to the transition to a circular economy. The sustainability targets reported by BASF apply worldwide and
refer to the BASF Group as a whole (for additional information, see page 31 onward). Our strategic
approach covers the entire value chain, from responsible procurement of our raw materials to safety and
resource efficiency in production all the way to more sustainable solutions for our customers.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 158
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
As part of our new strategy, we are channeling our efforts into high-growth markets. We want to expand
our organizational structure, our production sites and other research and development activities in the
following seven countries: China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. We are
continuously optimizing our organizational structures, our production sites and our R&D activities
worldwide.
Our Verbund concept involves using smart technology to link and control our plants. It creates more
efficient value chains – ranging from basic chemicals to high value-added products – while enabling a
more resource-efficient, carbon-optimized and reliably controllable production process. By-products
from one facility are used as feedstocks elsewhere, for example. This saves raw materials and energy,
avoids emissions, lowers logistics costs and leverages synergies.
We use a Differentiated Steering concept to control our operations, relying on industry-specific financial
performance indicators (for more information, see page 28), adapted governance structures, customized
processes and independent Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems. These measures create a
more decentralized ownership and increase transparency regarding the divisions’ performance.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 159
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The green transformation of our global value chain
Selected projects in the 2024 reporting year
BASF and ENGIE: long-term Funding approval for the world’s Market launch of loopamid®, the
biomethane purchase agreement in largest industrial heat pump for first circular solution for apparel
Europe emission-free steam generation made from polyamide 6
(see E1 Climate Change) (see E1 Climate Change) (see E5 Resource Use and Circular
Economy)
Our ambition:
We want to be the preferred chemical company to enable our customers’ green
transformation.
Upstream value chain Own production Downstream value chain
Procurement of bio-based Gradual implementation of Steering the product
and recycled raw materials new processes portfolio with the TripleS
method
Renewable energy – Feed-in of bio-based and
recycled raw materials – More products with
Supplier management
– Emission reduction sustainability benefits:
Sustainable-Future Solutions
– Code of Conduct
– More products that close or
– Sustainability-related Secure, efficient processes
extend loops: Loop
assessments
Solutions
– Operational excellence
– Supplier CO₂ Management
Program – Integrated Verbund structure
– Smart technology and
automation
Our foundation:
Societal acceptance of our business activities (license to operate)
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 160
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Sustainable steering of our product portfolio
Our product portfolio also changed in 2024 based on acquisitions and divestitures. The main changes
are listed from page 33 onward. The development of our product portfolio toward more sustainability is a
critical lever in assisting our customers with their green transformation. We particularly rely on our
TripleS method (Sustainable Solution Steering) which allows us to evaluate our product portfolio’s
contribution to categories such as climate change mitigation, energy and resource efficiency and
transitioning to a circular economy. As part of the TripleS method, we categorize our product portfolio
into five segments, taking sustainability-related aspects into account: Pioneer, Contributor, Standard,
Monitored and Challenged (see graphic). Initially, we review all products to identify any current or
possible future negative impacts on sustainability topics. We consider minimum standards such as the
BASF Code of Conduct, hazards and chemical exposure over the entire life cycle, expected regulatory
trends and reputational risks for BASF. If our portfolio assessment identifies products with sustainability
concerns, we classify them either as Monitored, or in case of significant concerns, as Challenged.
Products identified as having no negative impacts are reviewed to determine whether they contribute to
at least one of the following sustainability categories: climate change and energy, resource efficiency,
circular economy, pollution reduction, water protection, biodiversity, zero hunger and poverty, health and
safety. At the same time, the product should not negatively impact any of the other sustainability
categories in a significant way. Products where neither a positive contribution to nor a negative impact
on sustainability has been identified are classified as Standard. Products where a positive contribution
has been identified are classified as either Contributor or Pioneer depending on their contribution level
compared with the market standard.
Share of sales revenue generated by each TripleS segment in the 2024 business year
TripleS
segment Product performance Sales revenue (billion €)
Adequate profitability and positive contribution to 13.2
Pioneer
sustainability above market standard
Percentage share in sales revenue: 24.2%
Adequate profitability with contribution to
sustainability in line with the market standard with
Contributor 12.1
respect to climate change and energy, resource
efficiency or circular economy
Percentage share in sales revenue: 22.1%
In line with the market standard with no dedicated
Standard contribution to climate change and energy, resource 23.7
efficiency or circular economy
Percentage share in sales revenue: 43.5%
Impacted by specific regulatory or customer-specific
Monitored challenges arising in the medium term (2–5 years) or
3.9
posing a regional reputational risk
Percentage share in sales revenue: 7.1%
Impacted by substantial regulatory or customer-
specific challenges arising in the short term
(≤2 years), containing substances of very high 0.7
Challenged
concern (SVHC) when used in the end consumer
market, in violation of the BASF Code of Conduct or
posing a global reputational risk
Percentage share in sales revenue: 1.3%
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 161
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Taken together, the Pioneer and Contributor products make up our Sustainable-Future Solutions.
Products allocated to these segments make a positive sustainability contribution in the value chain. They
include, for example, bio-based and biodegradable polymers, which can be used as alternatives to
synthetic polymers in personal care products, and high-performance insulating materials that save
energy in their ultimate application. We are continuing our efforts to steer our portfolio even more toward
sustainability with our “Winning Ways” strategy. By 2030, more than 50% of BASF’s sales in the scope of
TripleS are to be attributable to Sustainable-Future Solutions. This target was adopted by the Board of
Executive Directors in 2023 based on an analysis of BASF’s portfolio and our growth forecasts. When
setting the target, we considered the startup of our Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China, for example. Our
TripleS method and the associated target are based on clearly defined, transparent criteria concerning
the respective sustainability topics (Environmental, Social and Governance, ESG), as described in our
methodology manual. There is currently no general quantitative scientific framework for the steering of a
product portfolio based on business performance and sustainability contribution that companies could
use as a guide when setting targets.
In 2024, BASF sales revenue1 from Sustainable-Future Solutions products came to 46.3% (2023: 41.4%,
our base year). We remain well on our way to achieving the target set. Together with the operating
divisions, our Corporate Sustainability unit in the Corporate Center continuously tracks progress toward
meeting the target based on our monthly reports of sale revenue. Any trends that are identified are
recorded and documented as part of the annual operational planning process carried out by Corporate
Finance. When collecting our TripleS data, we work on the assumption that we have taken all the latest
relevant regulatory developments and all market developments into account. We are limited in the extent
to which we are able to differentiate the contribution made by our products from the contribution made
by competing products because the assessment is made on a qualitative basis and not on the basis of
market studies. We use TripleS to review our product portfolio at least once every four years. The TripleS
method was applied in 2023 and 2024 to more than 50,000 products from the relevant portfolio,2 which
were assessed in terms of their applications as well as regional aspects. The portfolio relevant to TripleS
comprises BASF Group’s sales revenue from sales products sold to third parties in the business year
concerned. This excludes business that is not product-related, such as licenses or services.
We have integrated TripleS into the assessment of our research and development processes so as to
incorporate the requirements formulated by the European Commission in its Safe and Sustainable by
Design framework, among other things. Our use of TripleS creates transparency regarding the
contribution to sustainability made by our product portfolio and future products developed by R&D. We
are reviewing the sustainability-related challenges facing our products and steering our portfolio in the
direction of more sustainable solutions. According to our methodology, in 2024, around €0.9 billion of our
annual expenditure on research and development contributed to potential Sustainable-Future Solutions
(2023: around €1 billion).
In the case of Challenged products, we develop action plans. These include research projects and
reformulations to optimize products or replace them with alternatives. We are generally phasing out all
Challenged products within five years of their initial classification. BASF has implemented global
processes to ensure that products are only sold in markets where they have been approved. If a product
is affected by a marketing ban or loses its approval in a particular market, the product is immediately
reviewed and withdrawn from the market in accordance with local legal requirements. In general,
products are phased out based on our voluntary commitments before they are impacted by bans. No
products of significance for BASF were impacted by bans in the 2024 business year.
»For more information on TripleS, see basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering
1 Of BASF’s €65.3 billion in sales in 2024, €54.5 billion is relevant for the TripleS evaluation. By the end of the 2024 business year, we had evaluated 98.3% of the relevant
portfolio.
2 The definition of the relevant portfolio and further information can be found in the TripleS method manual at basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 162
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Interests and views of our stakeholders
ESRS 2 SBM-2
The acceptance and support of our stakeholders is crucial for our business success. Through continuous
dialog, we leverage the expertise of our stakeholders in global networks, worldwide initiatives and our
own advisory bodies and actively contribute our expertise.
For more than 25 years, we at BASF have engaged in continuous dialog with other companies,
nongovernmental organizations, international organizations and multistakeholder initiatives to better
understand different perspectives and address conflicting goals. Our stakeholders’ expectations are
taken into account when deciding on the company’s strategic direction, discussing targets and making
business decisions, thereby determining the company’s sustainability strategy to a significant extent. A
stakeholder dialog takes place regularly, for example with representatives from civil society, employees
and shareholders. The Corporate Development Corporate Center unit is responsible for all formal
communication with societal representatives, while the Corporate Human Resources is the Corporate
Center unit in charge of all communication with employees. Investor Relations is the Corporate Center
unit tasked with engaging with shareholders. The aforementioned Corporate Center units report to the
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors.
Sustainability topics are discussed and managed by the Board of Executive Directors. Stakeholder
expectations are taken into account in these discussions. The Board of Executive Directors also engages
with stakeholders directly in discussions as part of our stakeholder engagement activities. When making
its decisions, the Board of Executive Directors considers the results and recommendations from
sustainability evaluations of business processes. It makes decisions with strategic relevance for the
Group and monitors the implementation of strategic plans and target achievement. The CFO and the
heads of Group Reporting & Performance Management, Corporate Audit and Corporate Compliance
regularly report in detail to the Audit Committee on sustainability-related topics. Moreover, the
Supervisory Board is briefed by the Board of Executive Directors on the progress of sustainability topics
on an ongoing basis.
An overview of our most important stakeholder expectations and the platforms we use to engage them is
provided in the following:
Stakeholder expectations
Customers
Stakeholder expectations Engagement platforms Exemplary outcomes and milestones reached
– Attractive price-performance – ~40 strategic customer – Carbon footprint calculated for more than 40,000 of our
ratio networks sales products to create transparency for us and our
– Innovative and sustainable – Customer-specific business customers alike
solutions models based on our TripleS – Innovative products and solutions that help our
– Reliable partner method, for example customers achieve their sustainability goals
– Quality management system that focuses on customer
satisfaction
– Decentralized certification approach for our business
units and Group companies based on international
quality management standards such as ISO 9001 and
GMP, taking into account our customers’ requirements
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 163
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Suppliers
– Fair and reliable business – Supplier CO Management – BASF Supplier Days to reduce Scope 3.1 emissions held
2
relationships Program in Ludwigshafen, Germany, for the Europe region and in
– Support in complying with our – Supplier Code of Conduct São Paulo, Brazil, for the South America region
Supplier Code of Conduct – Assessments and training – 446 suppliers reviewed by BASF under the Together for
courses Sustainability (TfS) initiative; 990 participants at TfS
training courses
– Joint initiatives with suppliers
and partners – Cobalt for Development initiative to improve working and
living conditions for artisanal miners in the Democratic
– Sustainability-oriented due
Republic of the Congo
diligence management in the
supply chain – Responsible Lithium Partnership with BMW, Mercedes-
Benz, Volkswagen, Daimler Truck, Fairphone and GIZ
– Regional supplier diversity
programs – Responsibly Active program aimed at bundling activities
in the area of plant-based active ingredients (such as
argan and moringa supply chains)
– Collaboration within TfS on standardizing the calculation
of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in the supply
chain and on a digital platform for sharing Product
Carbon Footprint data
Investors
– Attractive distributions – Events with institutional – Capital Markets Day to communicate the new corporate
– Strong long-term share price investors, rating agencies and strategy held on September 26 and 27, 2024
performance private investors (one-on-one – Distributions to shareholders via dividends and share
– Transparency and risk meetings, roadshows, buybacks are expected to total at least €12 billion
minimization conferences, informational between 2025 and 2028 with an annual minimum
events) dividend of €2.25 per share.
– Active participation in ratings – BASF has good credit ratings and aims to maintain its
single A rating.
– BASF has also scored well in key ESG ratings (CDP, ISS,
Morningstar Sustainalytics, MSCI) compared with its
competitors in the chemical industry.
Employees
– Attractive and fair employer – Employee engagement: Global – Employee engagement target: More than 80% of our
– Health protection employee surveys employees feel that at BASF, they can thrive and perform
– Opportunities for employee – Regular feedback for leaders at their best. Employee engagement index of 79% in
2024
development – Continuous meaningful
conversations between leaders – Health Performance Index: 0.97 (see page 287)
and employees, annual – Regular reviews of security concepts, emergency
employee dialog systems and crisis management structures
– Cooperation with employee – 68 internal audits on adherence to our compliance
representatives based on standards
mutual trust – >120,000 participants in compliance training courses
– Initiatives and networks for
health and occupational safety
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 164
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Communities
– Safe, disruption-free operations – Societal engagement – €32 million in societal engagement spending at BASF
– Attractive jobs – Community advisory panels sites around the world to support health, skills and
resources for a sustainable future
– Support for local communities
– For 27 years, children and young people in 45 countries
have been able to take part in experiments in BASF Kids’
Labs.
– Five new Starting Ventures programs were initiated in
2024 to help people from low-income areas improve their
economic opportunities and their quality of life.
– The BASF Stiftung focuses on disaster management in
the area of international development cooperation. It
promotes forward-looking actions, emergency aid and
reconstruction. One example is an employee fundraising
campaign to support the U.N. Refugee Agency. The
approximately €370,000 collected will enable basic
supplies to be provided for refugees from Sudan.
– Community advisory panels provide an ongoing platform
for conducting open dialog with local communities at our
sites.
– More than 1,500 young people from seven countries,
supported by around 50 BASF employees, have
participated in our Young Voices for a Sustainable Future
project, where they were able to contribute their ideas for
addressing the impacts of climate change on their
communities.
Societal stakeholders
– Jobs and taxes – Sustainability Lab – Active participation in sustainability networks (U.N. Global
– Responsible and trustworthy – Advisory councils Compact, World Business Council for Sustainable
partner – Multistakeholder initiatives Development, Alliance to End Plastic Waste)
– Production of safe products in – Sustainability networks – Cofounder of the Global Battery Alliance (GBA) for the
compliance with environmental development of standards and tools to ensure a
and social standards sustainable value chain for batteries
– Systematic interaction with NGOs and civil society
– Political dialog: representation of political interests based
on transparent requirements and our publicly stated
positions
– Regular information sharing with government offices,
members of parliament and other interest groups in
numerous countries
We have been a member of the U.N. Global Compact since its establishment in 2000. BASF consistently
supports the Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact for responsible business conduct and the
Sustainable Development Goals. We are active around the world in local Global Compact networks, in
some cases in a leadership role. BASF has been an active member of the World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) since 1999. We cofounded the Global Battery Alliance (GBA) in 2017.
The aim of the GBA is to develop standards and tools to steer a sustainable value chain for batteries. In
2019, we cofounded the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW) to drive forward solutions that reduce and
avoid the disposal of plastic waste in the environment, in particular in the ocean.
If our transition to climate neutrality were to result in structural changes or have other significant social
impacts on employees (for example, organizational restructuring or other issues relevant to
codetermination), we would consult with employee representatives to find socially responsible solutions
in accordance with existing participation rights. Together with other companies and the European CSR
Europe network, we have worked on the topic of responsible social transition to climate neutrality (just
transition). We have contributed to both the development of a European road map and an associated
toolbox.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 165
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In order to involve our stakeholders more intensively and to dive deeper into specific sustainability topics,
we use our own independent advisory bodies. In 2023, we introduced a new stakeholder engagement
format with our Sustainability Lab, where around 100 external and internal experts discuss, among other
things, the complex challenges of climate change. Our intention with the Sustainability Lab is to shed
light on particular topics and issues related to sustainability from different perspectives. Furthermore, we
are expanding the circle of external and internal experts with whom we want to discuss and think through
the ever more complex topics. This external input helps us to critically examine and continuously develop
our sustainability approach. Our employees were able to follow the Sustainability Lab discussions
virtually. The idea is to involve our employees more actively in the topic of sustainability. We plan to
continue conducting the Sustainability Lab format on an event-driven basis in the future.
Additionally, it is important for us to further strengthen our dialog with civil society to gain a better
understanding of public opinions on potentially controversial topics. Not only do we invite members of
civil society to participate in formats such as the Sustainability Lab, but we also founded the BASF Civil
Society Forum in 2024. The forum permits us to discuss sustainability topics with representatives of
nongovernmental organizations and the trade union spectrum in a confidential setting.
We address current and important issues regarding specific topics with councils. The trustful exchange
within the Human Rights Advisory Council helps us to appropriately fulfill our roles and responsibilities,
particularly in challenging human rights situations. The Nature Advisory Council focuses on exchanging
information on topics relating to the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems. We discussed the
findings from our double materiality assessment with both councils in 2024. For more information on how
we take advantage of these councils and other formats in the context of affected communities, see
page 309 onward.
We use the information obtained through stakeholder engagement to critically evaluate and enhance
BASF’s sustainability strategy, including its targets. For instance, we rely on discussions in our councils
to identify areas for improvement with regard to human rights due diligence and the consideration of
biodiversity in new investment projects.
We bear a particular responsibility toward our sites’ neighbors. We promote continuous dialog between
residents and our site management and strengthen trust in our activities with community advisory panels.
Our globally binding guidelines for community advisory panels are based on the grievance mechanism
standards in the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Our political advocacy is conducted in accordance with transparent requirements and our publicly stated
positions. The same applies to our activities in associations. Our Industry Associations Review compares
the energy and climate protection positions of BASF and the most important associations of which we
are a member, with explanations on our approach. BASF does not financially support political parties, for
example, through donations in cash or in kind. This is codified in global requirements. In the United
States, employees at BASF Corporation have exercised their right to establish a Political Action
Committee (PAC). The BASF Corporation Employee PAC is an independent, federally registered
employee association founded in 1998. It collects donations from employees for political purposes and
independently decides how these are used, in accordance with U.S. law.
»For more information on our requirements for responsible lobbying, see basf.com/responsible-lobbying
»For more information on the Industry Associations Review, see basf.com/corporategovernance
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 166
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Double Materiality Assessment
ESRS 2 SBM-3 ESRS 2 IRO-1
Material impacts, risks and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and
business model
Process
We carried out a double materiality assessment in accordance with the ESRSs for the first time in 2024.
The assessment was performed on the basis of previous double materiality assessments, but with an
increased level of granularity and more extensive documentation. The materiality assessment identifies
the sustainability matters that are material for our company based on potential and actual material
impacts, risks and opportunities. We plan to update this assessment on an annual basis.
The materiality assessment was performed in three steps:
First, we compiled a list of potential sustainability matters that might impact our own business and the
associated customer industries, or that could be relevant to our stakeholder groups. Where applicable,
we paid particularly close attention to areas of business or value chains that are subject to risk. Our
assessment was carried out at BASF Group level along our value chain. Stakeholder interests were
considered based on both direct and indirect inputs. Direct input was obtained, for example, from our
Advisory Councils, from the BASF Civil Society Forum and via discussions in multistakeholder networks.
Indirect input consisted of big data analyses of the interests of customers and capital markets, for
example.
Based on the compiled sustainability matters, we worked with in-house experts and selected
stakeholders in our Nature Advisory Council and our Human Rights Advisory Council to identify and
validate the risks and opportunities associated with the company’s impacts and dependencies. We
focused on activities, sites and steps in the value creation process that have an elevated potential for
negative impacts and risks. To identify sustainability-related opportunities and risks, we drew on findings
from BASF’s Group-wide opportunity and risk management, among other sources. Material sustainability
matters have been systematically integrated into this process for many years. Furthermore, our impacts
and dependencies were reviewed by subject matter experts to identify additional potential risks and
opportunities.
Opportunities and risks were assessed in terms of their financial magnitude and likelihood of
occurrence. In-house subject matter experts used predefined criteria to score opportunities and risks
based on existing risk management methods and assessment criteria. Our objective here is to ensure
that a uniform methodology is applied when assessing both financial risks and sustainability-related
risks. We look at our financial risks and our sustainability-related risks and prioritize them based on their
severity and likelihood of occurrence. In the identification and review process, we work closely with our
opportunity and risk management organization. The findings from the materiality assessment will serve
as the basis for documenting opportunities and risks going forward, thus validating them at the same
time. New risks and opportunities will be incorporated into the materiality assessment via their inclusion
in the opportunity and risk management process.
ESRS 2 IRO-2
In the last step, we scored impacts, risks and opportunities on the basis of predetermined criteria on a
5-point scale and classified them as material whenever they exceeded defined thresholds. A uniform
assessment framework was used to review impacts in terms of their severity, scale and scope. In the
case of negative impacts, we additionally assessed the extent to which an impact was irremediable. In
addition, we estimated the likelihood of occurrence for potential impacts. To identify material impacts, we
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 167
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
established a uniform threshold based on the sum of the factors assessed. This threshold was assigned
a higher weighting to negative impacts.
In a subsequent iterative process, our assessment was reviewed by interdisciplinary experts as well as
the experts responsible for corporate opportunity and risk reporting. This process ensured that the
assessment logic used in the materiality assessment was applied in a consistent manner throughout the
BASF Group and across all specialist units. Finally, the Board of Executive Directors, the Supervisory
Board, BASF’s Joint Works Council and the BASF Works Council Europe were informed about the
process and the outcome of the materiality assessment.
After identifying the material impacts, risks and opportunities, each was assigned to a specific topic,
subtopic or sub-subtopic according to the list of sustainability matters in ESRS 1 AR 16 with the aim of
determining materiality across all topics. The responsible subject matter experts subsequently allocated
all applicable Disclosure Requirements and qualitative as well as quantitative data points to the material
sustainability matters. In the following step, the subject matter experts worked with experts for the
overarching materiality process to assess the “materiality of information” at the disclosure requirement
and data point level using the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) criteria of
“decision-usefulness” and “stakeholder relevance” according to ESRS 1 Appendix E. This aims to
increase the informational value of our reporting at the data point level with a view to the purpose of the
regulatory policy, which is to promote financing of the transition toward sustainable development.
Results
ESRS 2 SBM-3 ESRS IRO 1
The previous double materiality assessments were designed to meet all legal requirements in place at the
time. The new ESRS requirements, in combination with the implementation guidance published, required
a more in-depth analysis of subtopics and sub-subtopics for the 2024 business year. Moreover, an
additional level of granularity was created by working with potential and actual impacts, risks and
opportunities. Due to the methodological differences, our previous assessments are only comparable
with the assessment of double materiality performed in 2024 at the highest level of abstraction, the topic
level. This comparison shows a high degree of correlation between earlier assessments and the results
reported for the 2024 business year (see page 49 of the BASF Report 2023). No entity-specific topics
beyond the ones defined in the ESRSs were identified in the assessment for 2024.
As a manufacturing company, the main impacts of our business relate to climate change (mainly due to
our energy requirements), other environmental matters (emissions to air, water and biodiversity) and our
company’s workforce. The opportunities and risks identified have financial effects that affect the
presentation of our financial position, financial performance and cash flow as disclosed pursuant to our
accounting policies. In 2024, financial effects arose in connection with a risk identified in the S3 Affected
Communities standard (see page 304). The risk describes the negative financial effects that may arise,
for example, as a result of legal proceedings. For more information, see the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 411.
Our double materiality assessment (see page 167) found that ESRS S4 Consumers and End Users was
not material, hence we do not report on it. This evaluation is based on the fact that as a B2B company,
we market only a very small portion of our products directly to consumers and end users. We report on
material aspects of product safety that impact our customers and end users in the chapter E2 Pollution
Prevention.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 168
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Strategies to manage impacts, risks and opportunities
In developing our business strategies, we also consider the resilience of our business models with regard
to economic, ecological and social aspects, as well as their impacts, risks and opportunities. As part of
our opportunity and risk management system, strategic risks connected with material economic,
ecological and social matters are evaluated (for additional information, see page 87 onward). The
strategies of our business units are updated on a regular basis. This is done either individually for the
business unit or as part of the overall division strategy. When updating the strategies, we consult with
experts from the business units or the operating divisions as well as with the Corporate Center’s
Corporate Strategy & Sustainability unit. In 2024, we piloted a method to address material topics in the
strategies of the business units over the next ten years. Depending on the extent of the strategy revision,
resilience reviews, regulatory aspects and stakeholder expectations can be included to estimate future
market developments. Upstream and downstream value chains can also be considered in the analysis. In
addition, we use our TripleS methodology (Sustainable Solution Steering) to review the resilience of our
product portfolio with regard to environmental and social aspects.
We provide more information on the results of our resilience assessment with respect to these two topics
in the chapters E1 Climate Change (on page 178 onward) and E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems (on page
231 onward). We also report on the disclosure requirement ESRS 2 IRO-1 in accordance with the ESRSs
requirements in the chapters E2 Pollution Prevention, E3 Water, E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy
as well as G1 Business Conduct.
The following tables list the material impacts, risks and opportunities associated with our business.
Additional information of the impacts, risks and opportunities associated with each of the ESRS topical
standards is provided in the relevant chapter of this Sustainability Statement.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 169
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Material impacts
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material impacts Short description of material impacts
E1 Climate protection Negative Medium, long- Upstream value chain Land-use change due to sourcing Our procurement of plant-based raw materials creates an incentive to
More information term plant-based raw materials cultivate certain plants and expand the production environment for
on page 178 material loops. This negatively impacts land use.
onward Climate protection Negative, Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Shift to renewable energy and The manufacture and use of renewable energy requires minerals and
potential long-term electrification impacts the environment metals whose mining and subsequent processing could negatively
through the use of raw materials such impact the environment. In addition, their mining poses a risk of
as lithium. inappropriate working conditions in some regions.
Energy Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Climate-damaging emissions due to The extraction and procurement of fossil energy causes greenhouse gas
long-term the use of fossil fuels in our upstream emissions, air and water pollution and habitat destruction in our
value chain (Scope 3) upstream value chain.
Energy Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Climate-damaging emissions due to Our own production of energy in the form of steam and electricity using
long-term the use of fossil fuels for our production fossil fuels leads to emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants
(Scope 1 and 2) and thereby impacts the climate and the environment.
Energy Negative Short-, medium-, Downstream value chain Climate-damaging emissions from oil The oil and gas business in which BASF holds shares causes
long-term and gas businessa greenhouse gas emissions during combustion at customers, and leads
to environmental impacts in the downstream value chain.
Energy Positive Short-, medium-, Upstream and downstream Accelerated transition to climate By investing in renewable energy, we can offer our customers products
long-term value chain neutrality through energy with a reduced Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) and contribute to the
transformation transition toward climate neutrality by reducing upstream emissions.
Climate change Positive Short-, medium-, Upstream and downstream Innovations as a lever for climate Innovations in chemistry and new technologies can contribute materially
adaptation long-term value chain change mitigation and climate change to climate change mitigation and adaptation. We use our TripleS method
adaptation (Sustainable Solution Steering) to manage our product portfolio on the
basis of our products’ sustainability performance.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 170
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Material impacts
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material impacts Short description of material impacts
E2 Air pollution Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Regular emissions to air (excluding Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution are
More information long-term (mining/mineral extraction greenhouse gases; GHG) in connection generated in connection with the mining and extraction of raw materials
on page 205 industry) with the manufacture of extracted raw in our upstream value chain in the mining and mineral extraction
onward materials industries.
Air pollution Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Regular emissions to air (excluding Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution are
long-term (excluding mining/mineral GHG) in connection with the production generated by the production of precursors and intermediates in our
extraction industry) of precursors and intermediates upstream value chain.
Air pollution Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Regular emissions to air (excluding Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution, such as
long-term GHG) nitrogen oxides, particles and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are
generated in connection with production in our plants.
Air pollution Negative Short-, medium-, Downstream value chain Regular emissions to air (excluding Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air pollution are
long-term GHG) in connection with the usage, generated in connection with the usage, further processing,
further processing, transport, storage transportation, storage and disposal of our products by our customers.
and disposal of our products
Water pollution Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Regular emissions to water Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated by the
long-term production and extraction of raw materials, precursors and intermediates
in our upstream value chain.
Water pollution Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Regular emissions to water Emissions to water contributing to water pollution, such as nitrogen
long-term compounds, organic substances and heavy metals, are generated in
connection with production in our plants.
Water pollution Negative Short-, medium-, Downstream value chain Regular emissions to water Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated in
long-term connection with the usage, further processing, transportation, storage
and disposal of our products by our customers.
Water pollution Negative, Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations, Chemical leakages Potential chemical leakages in our own operations, as well as in
potential long-term upstream and downstream upstream/downstream processing, may result in pollution of water and
value chain therefore environmental pollution.
Substances of Negative, Long-term Downstream value chain Impact on human health and the Due to the sale of products containing substances of concern or of very
concern or of very potential environment of substances of (very high concern, irresponsible and improper handling of these products in
high concern high) concern the downstream value chain may result in water or soil pollution or to an
adverse impact on the environment or human health.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 171
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Material impacts
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material impacts Short description of material impacts
E3 Water abstraction Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Limited availability due to water We impact water availability through water abstraction and consumption
More information and consumption long-term abstraction and consumption in our upstream value chain, particularly in water stress areas.
on page 221 Water abstraction Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Limited availability due to water Water abstraction for our production impacts water availability in the
onward and consumption long-term abstraction areas where our production sites are located, particularly in water stress
areas.
Water abstraction Negative Short-, medium-, Downstream value chain Limited availability due to water We impact water availability through water abstraction and consumption
and consumption long-term abstraction and consumption in our downstream value chain, particularly in water stress areas.
Wastewater Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Regular emissions to water Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated by the
discharge long-term production and extraction of raw materials, precursors and intermediates
in our upstream value chain.
Wastewater Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Regular emissions to water Emissions to water contributing to water pollution, such as nitrogen
discharge long-term compounds, organic substances and heavy metals, are generated in
connection with production in our plants.
Wastewater Negative Short-, medium-, Downstream value chain Regular emissions to water Emissions to water contributing to water pollution are generated in
discharge long-term connection with the usage, further processing, transportation, storage
and disposal of our products by our customers.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 172
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Material impacts
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material impacts Short description of material impacts
E4 Land use change Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Need for land use due to the cultivation By procuring renewable raw materials, we provide impetus for their
More information long-term of renewable raw materials cultivation. This cultivation alters land use and can negatively impact
on page 231 ecosystems.
onward Land use change Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Land use by BASF sites BASF uses many plots of land for various purposes, such as offices,
long-term production and agricultural testing grounds. Soil sealing, especially due
to production plants in the chemical industry, represents a significant
land use type.
Land use change Positive Short-, medium- Downstream value chain More sustainable intensification of The use of our products, including crop protection products, in
term farming agriculture enables farmers to increase their productivity, thus supporting
food production.
Population size of Negative, Short-, medium- Downstream value chain The loss of biodiversity may be In the downstream value chain, the use of crop protection products
species, global potential term facilitated by the use of crop protection across large agricultural areas may have a negative impact on
extinction risk of products biodiversity.
species
Population size of Negative, Short-, medium-, Downstream value chain The use of industrial chemicals and The use of industrial chemicals and their distribution in the environment
species, global potential long-term their distribution in the environment may have a negative impact on species and biodiversity.
extinction risk of may have a negative impact on species
species
Impacts on the Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Impact on land degradation due to the By sourcing raw materials, we provide impetus for their cultivation and
extent and state of long-term sourcing of raw materials extraction. In some cases, this leads to land degradation.
ecosystems
E5 Resource inflows, Negative Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Sourcing and use of fossil or renewable We negatively impact overshooting of the planetary boundaries by
More information including resource long-term raw materials sourcing and using fossil and renewable raw materials, for example
on page 246 use through emissions, land use and environmental pollution.
onward Resource outflows Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations, Use of fossil or renewable raw materials We negatively impact overshooting of the planetary boundaries by using,
in connection with long-term upstream and downstream processing and combusting fossil or renewable raw materials, for
products and value chain example through emissions, land use and environmental pollution.
services
Waste Negative Long-term Upstream value chain Waste management in the upstream We negatively impact the planetary boundaries through the waste arising
value chain in our upstream value chain as a result of sourcing, refining and
processing.
Waste Negative Long-term BASF’s own operations Waste management in BASF’s own We negatively impact the planetary boundaries through the waste arising
production in our own production.
Waste Negative Long-term Downstream value chain Waste management in the downstream We negatively impact the planetary boundaries through the waste arising
value chain at our customers.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 173
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Material impacts
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material impacts Short description of material impacts
S1 Adequate wages Positive Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Adequate wages Our market-oriented compensation and corresponding additional
More information long-term benefits contribute to an attractive comprehensive package to attract
on page 270 and retain motivated and qualified employees. In this way, we create
onward attractive working conditions for our employees and make a positive
contribution to society.
Training and skill Negative, Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Training and skill development Demographic and technological shift as well as changing skill profiles
development potential long-term can potentially lead to employment and qualification gaps among our
skilled employees and leaders. In a rapidly changing environment, new
and increasing demands can potentially have a negative impact on
employee engagement.
Occupational Negative, Short-term BASF’s own operations Possible health and safety risk due to Our employees are exposed to a potential health and safety risk because
health and safety potential handling hazardous chemicals they work in laboratories and production plants and handle chemicals,
including hazardous substances.
Occupational Negative, Short-term BASF’s own operations Risk to health and safety if rules are not There is a potential risk to our employees’ health and safety if
health and safety potential followed or are ineffective instructions on occupational safety and health protection and rules in our
production processes are not followed.
S2 Occupational Negative, Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Increased health and occupational In the production of chemical raw materials, there are increased health
More information health and safety potential long-term safety risks when handling chemical and safety risks in our upstream value chain, particularly if necessary
on page 292 raw materials safety measures are not complied with. This is a common problem
onward primarily in countries whose national laws do not include any, or low,
requirements with respect to labor protection standards.
Child labor Negative, Short-, medium-, Upstream value chain Increased potential risk of child labor in Child labor is a particular risk in critical and less transparent supply
potential long-term specific supply chains chains and in countries with little state control and low incomes. This
applies, for example, to our upstream supply chains for renewable raw
materials, minerals and seeds. Smallholder farms and artisanal mines are
particularly affected.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 174
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Material impacts
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material impacts Short description of material impacts
S3 Free, prior and Negative, Medium, long- Upstream value chain Potential restriction of Indigenous Our procurement of raw materials may have potential impacts on
More information informed consent potential term peoples’ right to free, prior and Indigenous peoples and may limit their right to free, prior and informed
on page 303 informed consent consent (FPIC) regarding activities in their surroundings.
onward Other social and Negative, Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations, Potential adverse effects on health The production and use of chemicals in our own operations and in our
economic rights potential long-term upstream and downstream associated with the production and use value chain could potentially impair the health of people and
value chain of chemicals communities.
Other social and Positive Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Contribution to the positive Through our business activities, our stakeholder engagement and our
economic rights long-term development of communities societal engagement, we exert a positive economic, social and cultural
influence on communities.
Adequate nutrition Positive Short-, medium-, Downstream value chain Positive contribution to food supply Our crop protection products and our seeds help to ensure that crops
long-term produce a good yield in spite of pests and other problems so that people
benefit from an adequate food supply.
G1 Corporate culture Positive Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations, Global Code of Conduct Our global Code of Conduct has a positive impact on the workforce in
More information long-term upstream and downstream our company and on our value chains.
on page 317 value chain
onward Protection of Positive Short-term BASF’s own operations, Global compliance measures and Our global compliance measures and systems have a positive impact on
whistleblowers upstream and downstream systems our own workforce and other employees in our value chains.
value chain
Corruption and Positive Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Anticorruption training The mandatory training ensures that employees also learn how to be
bribery (for long-term vigilant in order to prevent any form of bribery or corruption. In this way,
example, we contribute to a business environment in which corruption and bribery
prevention and are not tolerated. By being perceived and valued as a trustworthy
detection company, BASF can help to reduce corruption and bribery.
including training,
incidents)
a On September 3, 2024, BASF transferred Wintershall Dea’s exploration and production business, excluding Russia-related activities, to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom. BASF continues to hold a material interest in Harbour Energy (see also page 344).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 175
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Opportunities and risks
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material opportunities and risks Short description of material opportunities and risks
E1 Climate change Negative, Long-term BASF’s own operations Rising product prices, and/or Lower-emission production using raw materials with reduced carbon
More information adaptation transition production costs and/or lower market footprints and renewable energy increases production costs and
on page 178 growth ultimately also product prices. Coupled with societal pressure to
onward consume less, this could lead to lower market growth.
Climate change Negative, Medium, long- BASF’s own operations Fragmentation in national and regional Pronounced differences in the regulatory framework due to divergent
adaptation transition term climate policy – and thus in the market regional climate policies pose particular strategic challenges for us as a
globally active company.
Climate change Negative, Long-term BASF’s own operations Regulatory volatility leading to Political regulations designed to mitigate climate change, such as those
adaptation transition competitive risks set out in the EU Green Deal, could represent a competitive risk for us
due to higher costs, for example as a result of administrative effort, and a
high level of volatility.
Climate change Positive, transition Long-term BASF’s own operations Market opportunities through climate- Our broad product portfolio includes, among other things, solutions for
adaptation smart products the circular economy and climate change mitigation. Increasing societal
demands and resulting regulations would offer additional market
opportunities for these products.
Energy Negative, Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Rising energy costs due to climate- For BASF as an energy-intensive company, risks arise particularly from
transition long-term related regulations regulatory changes such as in carbon pricing on emissions trading
systems, in taxes and in energy legislation.
Energy Positive, transition Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Renewable energy opens up Investments in own power assets and long-term supply contracts
long-term opportunities for cheaper or otherwise reduce dependencies on volatile global markets and lead to
more advantageous procurement. comparatively lower CO abatement and energy procurement costs.
2
E2 Water pollution Negative Medium, long- BASF’s own operations Increased costs for water treatment Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may require
More information term due to regulatory changes. investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our systems.
on page 205 Substances of Negative Medium-term BASF’s own operations Regulations with respect to substances Regulatory changes on substances of concern or of very high concern,
onward concern or of very of (very high) concern may have a such as their restriction, may limit the availability of relevant raw materials
high concern negative impact on the market, for and negatively impact market behavior and customer acceptance.
procurement, BASF’s own production
or sales.
E3 Wastewater Negative Medium, long- BASF’s own operations Increased costs for water treatment Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may require
More information discharge term due to regulatory changes investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our systems.
on page 221
onward
E4 Impacts on the Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Regulatory requirements for the Regulatory developments, prompted by actual or anticipated impacts of
More information state of species long-term marketing of chemicals our products on the state of species, their population sizes or their risk of
on page 231 extinction, impact our opportunities to market chemicals.
onward
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 176
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for the 2024 business year: Opportunities and risks
Time horizon
Topic/subtopic Evaluation/ (short-, medium-, Placement in the value
ESRS standard in the standard classification long-term) chain Material opportunities and risks Short description of material opportunities and risks
S1 Secure Negative Short-, medium- BASF’s own operations Secure employment The macroeconomic situation, combined with structural adjustments at
More information employment term BASF, may unsettle employees and pose challenges in terms of
on page 270 employee retention and engagement.
onward Training and skill Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Skills development and recruitment of Changing skill profiles and intensified global competition for skilled
development long-term skilled employees employees and leaders due to demographic and technological change
can lead to a loss of skills and knowledge in our workforce or affect our
ability to adequately and quickly develop them.
S3 Other social and Negative Short-, medium-, BASF’s own operations Loss of societal acceptance due to In the event of negative impacts on communities, societal acceptance of
More information economic rights long-term potential adverse effects on the health our business activities could suffer in the short to long term, trust could
on page 303 of people and communities be lost in BASF and the risk of litigation could increase.
onward
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 177
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Environment
E1 Climate Change1
ESRS E1
As an energy-intensive company, we take responsibility for the efficient
use of energy and global climate protection, and are committed to the
Paris Agreement. We are determined to follow the path toward climate
neutrality and to enable our customers’ green transformation by providing
low-emission chemistry.
ESRS 2 IRO-1 ESRS 2 SBM-3
Our business activities result in the production of greenhouse gas emissions,2 which have a negative
impact on the climate. These are emissions from our production, our energy procurement and our
upstream and downstream value chain. We are working to achieve a considerable reduction in these
emissions along the entire value chain. This also creates opportunities for our business activities: Thanks
to our transformation toward climate neutrality, we can increasingly offer our customers products with a
reduced Product Carbon Footprint (PCF).
Resilience and scenario analyses
At the same time, we have to position our business in line with the consequences of climate change and
to create resilience. As a company that is active in a very wide variety of different regions and business
areas, we take a diversified approach to climate change adaptation.
We use our TripleS method (Sustainable Solution Steering, see page 161) to continuously review the
resilience of our product portfolio with respect to environmental and social matters. We do this by
categorizing our products into different segments. This enables us to quantify and steadily increase the
proportion of products that contribute to sustainability. At the same time, products facing substantial
regulatory, customer-specific or sustainability challenges are identified and removed from our portfolio
within five years.
As part of our business strategy development, we also examine the medium- to long-term resilience of
our business models from an ecological, economic and social perspective, and with a view to their
impacts, risks and opportunities. As regards climate change, this process only looks at transition risks
and opportunities – we analyze physical climate risks and existing resilience centrally for our sites (see
page 180). In 2024, we started embedding resilience analysis in our processes to a greater extent. The
primary focus here is on our own business. The strategies of our business units are updated on a regular
basis. This is done either individually at business unit level or as part of the overarching divisional
strategy, and involves specialists from the business unit or operating division concerned and from our
central strategy unit. In 2024, we piloted a method to address material topics in the strategies of the
1 Unless otherwise stated, all metrics in the text comply with the consolidation by financial control approach (see also the disclosures on consolidation for the nonfinancial
reporting on page 151). The metrics listed in this section on the target-relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are part of the statutory audit and have been audited with
reasonable assurance.
2 The terms “greenhouse gas emissions” and “CO2 emissions” are used synonymously. They include all greenhouse gases in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 178
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
business units with a view to the next ten years.3 Depending on the extent of the strategy revision,
resilience reviews, regulatory aspects and stakeholder expectations can be included to estimate future
market developments. Upstream and downstream value chains can also be taken into account. At the
same time, climate-related transition risks are captured as part of our strategic controlling process. For
example, this allowed us to identify the influence of emissions trading schemes as a risk and changes in
demand for more sustainable products as an opportunity.
We also performed a comprehensive analysis of the resilience of the plants at our largest site in
Ludwigshafen, Germany, in the past year. We consider a large proportion of our plants to be well
positioned and competitive going forward. A short- to medium-term competition risk was identified for
16% of the plants.4 Specific measures – which can also include their closures – are already being
implemented for these plants so as to increase site profitability. We have identified a long-term risk for
6% of the plants, which we address through market-based measures.4
We use a variety of scenarios for future macroeconomic development in our strategy development and
risk management (for more information on these scenarios, see the section on climate-related transition
on page 180). In contrast to the assumptions made when analyzing physical climate risks, the scenarios
that we use here limit global warming to different extents. Using multiple scenarios addresses and
minimizes uncertainties regarding expected developments and enables us to determine risks associated
with different future developments. The chemical industry, which is the start of many value chains, can
play a key role in the transformation process. Growing electrification – including of our own plants – will
considerably increase the need for energy from renewable sources going forward. At the same time, the
use of fossil raw materials will decline and the circular economy will become more important.
Our business units regularly analyze the opportunities and risks arising from the scenarios, including,
where possible, their financial impacts. In strategy development, scenario impacts are largely examined
from a qualitative perspective during assessment. We use a multistage process to review the economic
efficiency of investment decisions. The metrics used in this process are calculated for different scenarios,
highlighting differences that may affect the decisions. We also use opportunities and risks relating to
environmental and social matters to evaluate projects. In addition, we regularly review planned CO
2
abatement strategies. We have identified measures when implementing our strategy that will enable
low-emission plant operation in the long term. The necessary access to funding as part of the
transformation is assisted by our Green Finance Framework.
BASF has published a comprehensive corporate carbon footprint every year since 2008. This reports on
all greenhouse gas emissions along the value chain – from raw materials extraction to production and
subsequent disposal. We regularly analyze the future development of our emissions. Additional
greenhouse gas emissions resulting from business expansion are determined as early as the project
assessment phase. We build on these to capture the current and future impacts that our business has on
climate change.
Climate change poses challenges for us but also offers opportunities for our business activities that
enhance the resilience of our business models. For example, our products and solutions contribute to
reducing greenhouse gas emissions in many areas.
3 The time periods considered in the resilience analysis described here only correspond exactly to those of the transition risk analysis. Our climate protection targets for 2030
are within the period under review. We consider physical climate risks and corresponding resilience over a longer period of time, as these only have an impact in the long
term.
4 The figures correspond to the time horizons used by BASF in the course of the assessment (short-term: until 2026, medium-term: until 2030, long-term: after 2030).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 179
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Climate-related physical and transition risks
We systematically assess physical and transition influences to identify and assess material climate-
related risks and opportunities.
When assessing our production sites for physical climate risks, we focus on material sites that make a
relevant contribution to our business and our portfolio. The assessment is performed on the basis of
climate data from the current Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) scenarios, which were
compiled together with an external partner. In the process, we focus on a climate protection scenario
with a high level of global warming.5 This data helps to analyze the potential impacts that climate change
could have on the production sites in the coming decades. Our assessment addresses both current risks
and long-term risks with a time horizon of 30 years. If long-term risks are identified, we examine whether
they also represent a medium-term risk. Physical climate risks are assessed using geographical
coordinates at site level. In a first step, a qualitative assessment is performed and sensitivities to various
climate risks are prioritized so as to obtain an initial indication of potential material risks. Sensitivity
analysis takes both internal and external factors into account. Internal factors comprise the resilience of
plants, infrastructure, operations and services. External factors comprise the external infrastructure,
water, energy and raw materials supplies, wastewater treatment and the dispatch of finished goods. In
addition, the assessment considers risks affecting the entire site and, where relevant, individual plants or
specific parts of the site.
We anticipate that most sites will be particularly affected by increasing heat and drought, whereas some
may be faced with heavy precipitation and a few could also be exposed to risks in connection with
flooding, hail, water stress and wildfires. Where risks are estimated to be in excess of
€10 million, potential material losses are quantified and an adaptation plan is drawn up. Targeted site-
and business-specific measures can involve optimizing process flows and infrastructure, for example.
Based on our assessment in the reporting year, we consider our sites to be well positioned for climate
change. However, the transportation of key raw materials and products depends materially on water
levels on the River Rhine, for example, especially in the critical Middle Rhein region. An extreme drought
could significantly impact transportation, or even bring it to a standstill. We are currently working to more
precisely determine the scope of materiality of this risk and the sites affected. We have already taken
measures to counteract this risk (see page 224).
With respect to transition climate risks and opportunities, global climate policy ambitions and the
implementation of relevant measures play a decisive role in the continuing growth of the chemical
industry and its customer industries. Consequently, we have worked together with an external partner
using an empirical simulation model to define and quantify global long-term scenarios up to 2050
featuring various global warming paths. In addition, a net-zero scenario in the EU and the United States
by 2050, and globally by 2060, was also analyzed, which limits global warming to 1.5°C. The
fundamental drivers for the scenarios are different societal preferences and, building on these, climate
and economic policy objectives. To assess the impact of different global climate policy approaches on
our business units, the scenarios are discussed by the business units in workshops. Feedback is
incorporated into the ongoing development of the scenarios.
The resulting risks were reviewed for materiality as part of the double materiality assessment. Going
forward, the material transition risks identified at Group level will be systematically examined by our
business units and quantified if possible, and countermeasures will be taken where necessary.
Adaptation measures can include modifying our product portfolio, investments in new technologies or
enhancing existing technologies.
5 The assessment model was based on the IPCC SSP5-8.5 climate change scenario (high global warming scenario) as the worst-case scenario.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 180
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We continuously analyze physical and transition opportunities and risks arising in connection with the
topics of energy and climate protection as part of our opportunity and risk management (for additional
information, see page 87 onward).
The double materiality assessment that we performed in 2024 (see page 167) resulted in seven material
impacts on climate change, plus four material climate-related risks and two material climate-related
opportunities for BASF (see the following table “Results of the double materiality assessment”). For
information on the relevant time horizons, see the overarching table on the results of the double
materiality assessment (page 169).
Results of the double materiality assessment for E1 Climate Change: Impacts
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Climate-damaging emissions due to Negative Upstream value chain The extraction and procurement of fossil energy
the use of fossil fuels in our causes greenhouse gas emissions, air and water
upstream value chain (Scope 3) pollution and habitat destruction in our upstream
value chain.
Land-use change due to sourcing Negative Upstream value chain Our procurement of plant-based raw materials
plant-based raw materials creates an incentive to cultivate certain plants and
expand the production environment for material
loops. This negatively impacts land use.
Shift to renewable energy and Negative, Upstream value chain The manufacture and use of renewable energy
electrification impacts the potential requires minerals and metals whose mining and
environment through the use of raw subsequent processing could negatively impact
materials such as lithium. the environment. In addition, their mining poses a
risk of inappropriate working conditions in some
regions.
Climate-damaging emissions due to Negative BASF’s own Our own production of energy in the form of steam
the use of fossil fuels for our operations and electricity using fossil fuels leads to emissions
production (Scope 1 and 2) of greenhouse gases and other pollutants and
thereby impacts the climate and the environment.
Climate-damaging emissions from Negative Downstream value The oil and gas business in which BASF holds
oil and gas businessa chain shares causes greenhouse gas emissions during
combustion at customers, and leads to
environmental impacts in the downstream value
chain.
Accelerated transition to climate Positive Upstream and By investing in renewable energy, we can offer our
neutrality through energy downstream value customers products with a reduced Product
transformation chain Carbon Footprint (PCF) and contribute to the
transition toward climate neutrality by reducing
upstream emissions.
Innovations as a lever for climate Positive Upstream and Innovations in chemistry and new technologies can
change mitigation and climate downstream value contribute materially to climate change mitigation
change adaptation chain and adaptation. We use our TripleS method
(Sustainable Solution Steering) to manage our
product portfolio on the basis of our products’
sustainability performance.
a On September 3, 2024, BASF transferred Wintershall Dea’s exploration and production business, excluding Russia-related activities, to Harbour Energy plc, London,
United Kingdom. BASF continues to hold a material interest in Harbour Energy (see also page 344).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 181
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for E1 Climate Change: Risks and opportunities
Risks and opportunities Evaluation Description
Rising product prices, and/or production costs Negative, transition Lower-emission production using raw materials with reduced
and/or lower market growth carbon footprints and renewable energy increases production
costs and ultimately also product prices. Coupled with
societal pressure to consume less, this could lead to lower
market growth.
Fragmentation in national and regional climate Negative, transition Pronounced differences in the regulatory framework due to
policy – and thus in the market divergent regional climate policies pose particular strategic
challenges for us as a globally active company.
Regulatory volatility leading to competitive risks Negative, transition Political regulations designed to mitigate climate change, such
as those set out in the EU Green Deal, could represent a
competitive risk for us due to higher costs, for example as a
result of administrative effort, and a high level of volatility.
Rising energy costs due to climate-related Negative, transition For BASF as an energy-intensive company, risks arise
regulations particularly from regulatory changes such as in carbon pricing
on emissions trading systems, in taxes and in energy
legislation.
Market opportunities through climate-smart Positive, transition Our broad product portfolio includes, among other things,
products solutions for the circular economy and climate change
mitigation. Increasing societal demands and resulting
regulations would offer additional market opportunities for
these products.
Renewable energy opens up opportunities for Positive, transition Investments in own power assets and long-term supply
cheaper or otherwise more advantageous contracts reduce dependencies on volatile global markets and
procurement. lead to comparatively lower CO abatement and energy
2
procurement costs.
Strategy and governance
E1-2
Climate change is the greatest challenge of the 21st century. Swift and resolute action is needed to
achieve the targets agreed in the Paris Agreement. We stand by this responsibility. Climate change
mitigation and the transformation of the chemical industry are very important to us and an important part
of our corporate strategy (for more information, see page 18).
BASF is taking a step-by-step approach to the green transformation and is combining climate change
mitigation with its customers’ and its own success. Our ambition is to be the preferred chemical
company to enable our customers’ green transformation. In recent years, we have increasingly invested
in renewable energy to power our plants, tested new technologies and deployed alternative raw materials
so as to drive forward our transformation and launch more sustainable products with a reduced or a net-
zero carbon footprint on the market. This also allows our customers to benefit from our emission
reduction measures.
In the future, we will focus even more on the specific opportunities for our business and will prioritize
projects for which we see growing customer demand and willingness to pay. The focus will continue to
be on projects that secure our license to operate. We will stagger our transformation projects over time in
keeping with these priorities. In a first step, we are planning to use greater amounts of bio-based and
recycled feedstocks in our existing plants. In doing so, we will make the most of the unique advantages
offered by our Verbund. We are expecting demand for more sustainable products to outpace supply in
the medium term, leading to profitable growth for BASF. As the markets for more sustainable products
grow, we will be in a position to scale up and apply the new technologies that we are currently
developing and, in some cases, already piloting. This step-by-step approach to transformation is
reflected in our investments: Expenditure associated with the transformation is expected to average
€600 million per year between 2025 and 2028. We expect that the majority of major capital expenditures
for our green transformation will arise in the period after 2030.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 182
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We have established comprehensive management and control systems to minimize negative
environmental impacts and protect the environment. Our Responsible Care Management System
includes not only Group-wide requirements and guidelines for health and safety (for more information,
see pages 209 and 278) but also the areas of environmental protection and energy. Our global
environmental protection standards serve to assess environmental impacts such as those resulting from
CO emissions. In addition, we implement the technical, operational and administrative measures needed
2
to control and minimize these impacts, and ensure that we comply with national and local environmental
legislation. Our global energy standards are specifically aimed at reaching our Scope 1 and Scope 2
climate protection targets (see “Global Targets”). In them, we undertake to continuously improve the
energy efficiency of our operating procedures by implementing energy management systems, and to
drive forward resource-saving and economic production at our sites. Moreover, we have defined general
guidelines for optimizing existing energy supply structures and developing new energy supply concepts.
These also involve evaluating low-emission and emission-free alternatives such as electricity and steam
from renewable sources. We use requirements for systematically collecting and monitoring emissions
and energy data as the basis for improving our sustainability performance and managing our climate
protection targets.
The Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety and Quality unit in the Corporate Center defines
Group-wide management and control systems and monitors compliance with internal requirements and
legal regulations, while the sites and Group companies implement these requirements locally. We
regularly audit our performance and progress, and hence the effectiveness of our requirements. Our
global network enables information and insights to be shared across the BASF Group on a regular basis.
Our requirements and guidelines are continuously updated. To this end, we also exchange information
with authorities, associations and international organizations. For example, BASF is actively involved in
the global Responsible Care® initiative established by the International Council of Chemical Associations
(ICCA).
We address climate change adaptation centrally through our approach to assessing physical climate
risks (see page 180). Based on this, our sites resolve and implement local measures such as adapting
logistics to low water as well as flood protection measures. The risks associated with adapting to climate
change depend heavily on the geographical location of our sites, site-specific conditions and the
underlying regulations in the respective countries, and in some cases differ considerably. An overarching
policy therefore does not exist.
We have also established guidelines and requirements for managing our emissions along the value chain,
and thus our Scope 3.1 target and the Scope 3.1 emissions for our net-zero target by 2050. Our
procurement organization has established a global risk-based management system for our upstream
supply chain. We have defined the standards for this in a global procurement requirement. We
continuously enhance this requirement and our structures and processes in order to adapt to changing
conditions. Our suppliers are required to comply with internationally recognized environmental standards.
Our expectations of our suppliers are laid down in the global Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 295),
which is part of our purchasing conditions. The code is based, among other things, on the Ten Principles
of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and the Responsible Care® initiative, and includes the
deployment of energy-efficient, environmentally friendly technologies. We endeavor to ensure
compliance with these requirements using a multistage control process. In addition, BASF has drawn up
principles for the responsible procurement of renewable raw materials, plus standards in relation to
Product Carbon Footprints and eco-efficiency analyses with the aim of reducing our products’ carbon
footprints.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 183
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
For further explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application, accountability,
impacts in the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof,
see General Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151.
ESRS 2 GOV-3
We have laid the foundations for our successful transformation by establishing internal incentive
schemes and we are setting up our organization accordingly.
We anchored reducing our Group-wide CO emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2)6 as the most important
2
nonfinancial key performance indicator in the BASF Group’s steering and compensation systems back
in 2020, giving it even more weight. This is one of three equally weighted (33.3%)7 strategic targets for
the long-term incentive (LTI) of the Board of Executive Directors and senior executives. Supervisory
Board remuneration does not include any variable components and so is not linked to target
achievement.
We used a short-term incentive (STI) program to introduce targets for the senior executives in our
operating business units in the reporting year, with the goal being to drive forward the market-driven
transformation as part of our new strategic direction. In addition to the financial targets, this defines three
further targets: occupational and process safety, sustainability and development of the operating
divisions. The first two targets mentioned are sustainability-related. All three objectives are equally
weighted in the STI calculation and together account for 25% of the total STI formula. This means that
16.7% of the entire STI formula is sustainability-related. The sustainability target includes elements that
contribute to our green transformation, such as sales of our Sustainable-Future Solutions (for more
information, see page 161) or that increase the share of purchased raw materials with supplier-specific
Product Carbon Footprints (for more information, see page 193).
»For additional information on integrating sustainability-related achievements into our incentive systems, see the Compensation Report at
basf.com/compensationreport
Our organizational structures are designed in such a way as to permit a market-driven transformation to
a more sustainable product portfolio, plus the achievement of our climate protection targets. The
Corporate Center unit Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety and Quality, which reports to a
member of the Board of Executive Directors, is responsible for our Responsible Care Management
System. The Corporate Strategy & Sustainability unit, which reports to the Chairman of our Board of
Executive Directors, develops the BASF Group’s climate protection targets and tracks the emission
reduction levers aiming at achieving them. The Global Procurement unit, which reports to the Chief
Financial Officer, is responsible together with Corporate Strategy & Sustainability for the purchasing
processes and procurement requirement relating to our raw materials-related targets. As part of our new
corporate strategy, the BASF Renewable Carbon unit within Global Procurement is continuing to drive
the sourcing of renewable raw materials and biomass for BASF’s operating divisions. This is the
counterpart to BASF Renewable Energy GmbH, the subsidiary that coordinates the procurement of
renewable energy.
The Net Zero Accelerator unit, which had focused on emissions reduction projects since 2022, was
dissolved as of January 1, 2025, in line with the new corporate strategy. The activities were integrated
into existing divisions and service units, ensuring that BASF’s green transformation is aligned even more
closely with market trends and that the business can better react to new customer requirements.
6 Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). Greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, converted into CO2 equivalents (CO2e).
7 The exact percentage influence on compensation depends on target achievement. For more information, see the Compensation Report at
basf.com/compensationreport.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 184
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Transition plan for climate change mitigation
E1-1
We are pursuing ambitious climate protection targets. We want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
from our production processes (Scope 1) and our energy purchases (Scope 2) by 25% by 2030
compared to the base year of 2018, and are aiming to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by
2050.8 Our target focuses on emissions caused by our production and includes around 96% of our
Scope 1 emissions and 99% of our Scope 2 emissions (see page 194).9 It is compatible with limiting
global warming to 1.5°C based on the emission reduction pathways described by the
International Energy Agency (IEA) in its study entitled “Net Zero by 2050.”10 Already today, the emissions
intensity of our plants for producing basic chemicals such as ammonia, methanol and
high value chemicals is below the values defined by the IEA for 2030.
»For additional information on the analysis of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 target and on compatibility with the goals of the
Paris Agreement, see basf.com/corporate_carbon_footprint
Above and beyond our own production, we take responsibility for emissions along our value chain. This
is why we set ourselves a target for our raw materials-related Scope 3.1 emissions in 2023 that includes
around 92% of our Scope 3.1 emissions.11 Raw materials-related emissions from battery materials are
initially excluded from the target (see page 196). By 2030, we want to reduce these Scope 3.1 emissions
in relation to the purchasing volume specifically by 15% compared to the 2022 base year (see page 195).
However, the IEA study does not provide a basis for deriving an emissions reduction pathway for these
emissions.
To achieve our climate protection targets, we have developed a transition plan12 that shows our
emissions reduction path based on the most important levers. We are focusing
on the following emission reduction levers13 to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from our own
production and energy purchases (Scope 1 and 2):
– Renewable energy: We are increasingly meeting our electricity needs from renewable sources (see
the actions on page 189).
– Operational excellence: Our operational excellence activities are continually improving the energy
and process efficiency of our plants (see the actions on page 190).
– Low-emission steam generation: In the future, we will increasingly rely on electrification for steam
generation and hence also tap previously unused waste heat potential (see the actions on page 191).
– Climate-smart technologies: We are developing completely new emission-free and low-emission
processes, and are assessing and piloting new technologies for more sustainable chemistry (see the
actions on page 192).
8 Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). Greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, converted into CO2 equivalents (CO2e).
9 Based on the base year 2018
10 The IEA’s Net Zero by 2050 study reflects a scenario that, measured in accordance with the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C, is consistent with a
1.5°C scenario for 2030 with a low temperature overshoot and with a 1.5°C scenario in which there is no overshoot for 2050.
11 Scope 3.1, raw materials excluding battery materials, excluding services, technical goods and greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business. The emissions
account for 52% of total Scope 3 emissions based on the 2024 business year. We adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the
availability of further primary data.
12 BASF is not an undertaking that is excluded from the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks in accordance with the exclusion criteria stated in Articles 12(1), points (d) to (g) of
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1818 (Climate Benchmark Standards Regulation).
13 No climate scenarios were used to identify the levers. Instead, the levers are based on an analysis of the sources of emissions and the technical means of reducing them.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 185
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Transition plan for climate change mitigation
Million metric tons of CO equivalents
2
a Reference target value of a 1.5°C-compliant reduction pathway
Roughly half of BASF’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are attributable to energy produced to operate
our plants. Scope 2 emissions can be reduced by up to 3.2 million metric tons of CO by 2030 using the
2
“renewable energy” lever. Additional emission reductions of up to 0.6 million metric tons of CO
2
(Scope 1) are possible in the period up to 2030 using the “low-emission steam generation” lever. In the
long term, new steam generation technologies such as heat pumps and e-boilers not only enable
emission reduction but will also enable decoupling of highly efficient steam and power generation in
combined heat and power plants. The electricity generated from this today can then also be provided
using renewable energy. The other half of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions arise in our production
processes. One way of reducing these emissions is the continuous improvement of our plants
(operational excellence). We see a reduction potential of up to 0.6 million metric tons of CO (primarily
2
Scope 1), which we aim to achieve by 2030. Furthermore, we are working to develop and implement
climate-smart technologies so as to facilitate lower-emission production. This will result in further
potential reductions of up to 1.1 million metric tons of CO (Scope 1) by 2030. Our emission reduction
2
levers enable the reduction of growth-related CO emissions that will be added by 2030, which are
2
associated with organic growth and the investment in our new Verbund site in southern China. All
reduction measures implemented are to be regarded as long-term. We will counteract growth-driven
emission increases between 2030 and 2050 primarily using the “climate-smart technologies” and ”low-
emission steam generation” levers.
The transition plan reflects the market-driven transformation approach set out in our new strategy, which
was published in the reporting year and in which we have adopted a step-by-step approach (see also
“Strategy and governance”). In the first phase, we already succeeded in securing access to larger
volumes of electricity from renewable energy and tested new, climate-smart technologies. Now, in the
second phase, we are focusing on customer needs, on Scope 1 reduction actions offering specific
opportunities for our business, and on securing our license to operate. At the same time, we are
assessing new business models and new technologies. Major investments in scaling up climate-smart
technologies will largely be made in the third phase after 2030.
For the progress made in implementing our transition plan, clustered by the relevant emission reduction
levers, see “Actions” (page 189). We evaluate and prioritize specific actions for emission reduction and
target achievement on an ongoing basis from an economic and technological perspective. We also
continuously analyze our portfolio. Consequently, the representation in the graphic depicts the current
status of our planning, but will be updated going forward. We will only consider external offsetting
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 186
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
measures for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions14 as a temporary measure in the medium term if our
activities were not to make the desired contribution to reducing emissions.
As an energy- and emissions-intensive sector, the chemical industry today has a significant amount of
potential locked-in greenhouse gas emissions.15 This also applies to BASF and was taken into account
when assessing our emission reduction levers. Since significant financial resources will be needed to
transform our plants, locked-in emissions from assets jeopardize the achievement of our targets in
principle. Potential locked-in emissions are factored into our investment decisions, such as the plans for
our new Verbund site in southern China. From 2025 onward, the latter will be supplied exclusively with
electricity from renewable sources and will serve as a model for sustainable chemical production.
Few of our products lead directly to CO emissions during their use phase. Nevertheless, we also aim to
2
reduce these emissions even further by constantly looking for new, more sustainable solutions
(see “Product Carbon Footprints” on page 194) and have already achieved significant emission
reductions as a result (see the reduction in Scope 3.11 in “Actions along our value chain” on page 192).
The transition plan is embedded in our financial planning and was approved by the Board of Executive
Directors and the Supervisory Board. It is based on investments of around €300 million in Scope 1
measures and €250 million in renewable energies between 2025 and 2028. These are part of BASF’s
green transformation expenditure of €600 million each year on average.
In 2024, we invested €59 million (taxonomy-aligned capital expenditures/capex) in constructing a water
electrolysis plant for producing hydrogen at our Ludwigshafen site in Germany (see the table on capital
expenditures/capex in EU Taxonomy on page 263).
Furthermore, we invested €149 million, which are attributable to gas-related economic activity (see the
table on capital expenditures/capex in EU Taxonomy on page 263). In addition to investments made to
achieve our emission reduction target, we are also investing in steam generation at our Verbund site in
Zhanjiang, China, which is under construction. Part of steam production there will come from a natural
gas fired boiler, alongside to the future use of process waste heat steam.
BASF has not reported any taxonomy-eligible activities under the climate change adaptation objective.
This is firstly to avoid double counting with economic activities that have already been included under the
climate change mitigation objective. Secondly, in accordance with the notice issued by the European
Commission, a prerequisite for taxonomy eligibility under the adaptation objective is the submission of an
investment plan for implementing adaptation solutions; such a plan within the meaning of the Taxonomy
Regulation has not been submitted to BASF. In addition, BASF does not have any other targets or plans
with which it could adapt its economic activities to the criteria set out in Delegated Regulation (EU)
2021/2139. For information on activities under the climate change mitigation environmental objective,
see the EU Taxonomy chapter (on page 257).
14 Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). The emissions account for 96% of total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in relation to the base year.
Greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, converted into CO2 equivalents (CO2e).
15 These are future greenhouse gas emissions that are likely to be caused by key assets or products within their operating lifetimes.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 187
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
E1-2
We are focusing on procurement-specific actions to reduce our raw materials-related emissions
(Scope 3.1) and are working closely together with our suppliers (see “Actions along our value chain” on
page 192). In recent years, we have been able to considerably increase the data availability and thereby
the transparency of our raw materials-related emissions, and aim to steer these more precisely via our
resulting Scope 3.1 target.
What is more, we are taking responsibility for our other emissions along the value chain (see page 192).
Reducing Scope 3 emissions – which account for the majority of our total emissions – presents us with
particular challenges, as these are only partly within our own direct sphere of influence and are
influenced by a large number of external factors.
We are also increasingly focusing on circularity in the form of renewable and recycled raw materials and
raw materials based on the use of CO in order to move from linear value creation to closed-loop material
2
cycles (see page 247). In future, we will drive forward sourcing of renewable raw materials and deploy a
make and buy approach similar to that with which we source renewable energy. Feeding in greater
amounts of bio-based and recycled raw materials in our existing plants will allow us to leverage the
unique strengths of our Verbund and to offer our customers products with lower Product Carbon
Footprints (PCFs).
We use a digital solution that continuously determines the PCFs for more than 40,000 sales products16
(see “Product Carbon Footprints”) to increase transparency about our product-specific greenhouse gas
emissions and focus CO reduction measures on those areas where they bring the greatest added value.
2
These PCFs include all greenhouse gas emissions – from raw materials extraction to the finished product
leaving the factory gates (“cradle-to-gate”). This lets our customers benefit from lower CO emissions in
2
the value chain. In addition, we offer our customers solutions that help prevent greenhouse gas
emissions and improve energy and resource efficiency.
Moreover, our TripleS method, which steers the sustainability performance of our product portfolio, is a
material element in the process of enhancing transformation topics relating to climate change, energy,
resource efficiency and the circular economy (for more information, see page 161). In addition to
implementing new regulatory requirements, we are actively driving forward the adaptation and
development of new production processes with the aim of reducing the environmental footprint of our
products. Criteria for reducing CO emissions are a key part of the evaluation process. Products with
2
sustainability concerns are identified and, in the case of severe challenges, action plans are developed to
optimize them or replace them with alternative solutions.
»For more information on TripleS, see basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering
All parts of society must work together to effectively protect the climate. The basis is a political and
regulatory environment that promotes innovation in climate change mitigation, makes it possible to
develop new processes that are competitive internationally and resolutely drives forward the expansion
of renewable energies. Our aim is to work together to shape the transformation toward climate neutrality
in a socially just manner (just transition). We include the viewpoints of our external stakeholders in our
decisions and actions using dialog forums and advisory bodies such as the Nature Advisory Council,
which we established together with external experts (for more information, see page 309) and the
Sustainability Lab stakeholder engagement format (for more information, see page 166).
16 This includes all BASF products of all A companies and some selected B companies, excluding traded goods. For more information on the Group’s legal structure, see
page 14.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 188
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In addition, we support various national and international initiatives and are involved in partnerships. For
example, we engaged in close dialog with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) to derive science-
based climate protection targets for the chemical sector.
»For more information on climate protection, see basf.com/climate_protection
We are committed to reporting transparently on our climate protection targets and progress, as well as
on the impact of climate change on BASF. In this context, we support the recommendations of the Task
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have also participated in the program
established by the international nonprofit organization CDP for reporting on data relevant to climate
protection since 2004. The final CDP assessment on climate protection for 2024 was not yet available up
to the editorial deadline for the BASF Report 2024.
»For more information on the CDP climate change questionnaire, see basf.com/en/cdp
Actions
E1-3
We consistently align our actions with our climate protection targets, based on a comprehensive analysis
of our emissions. The transformation of our company toward low-emission chemistry is closely linked to
our customers’ transformation. Our key customer industries are facing enormous challenges in reaching
their sustainability-related goals. We supply the chemical products supporting them in this. At the same
time, the preconditions for business cases at scale do not yet fully exist. The market readiness, and
hence also the speed of green transformation, varies widely between regions and customer industries.
Against this background, we are focusing our transformation approach even more single-mindedly on
development and on the needs of our various customer markets, which will allow us to concentrate even
more strongly on our specific business opportunities. We will prioritize projects for which we see growing
customer demand and willingness to pay for low-emission and emission-free solutions. As the markets
for sustainable products grow, we will be in a position to finance necessary investments in new
production technologies. Equally, we will need qualified staff and service providers to develop,
implement and maintain these technologies.
In 2024, we invested €59 million (taxonomy-aligned investments/capex) in constructing a water
electrolysis plant for producing hydrogen at our Ludwigshafen site in Germany (see the
table on capital expenditures/capex in EU Taxonomy on page 263). In addition, no significant capital and
operating expenses within the meaning of the EU taxonomy were incurred in the business year 2024 for
the actions described.
Renewable energy
Roughly half of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are attributable to our plants’ energy demand.
A core component is therefore converting our energy supply from fossil to renewable sources; this
applies especially with regard to our electricity supply. In 2024, electricity from renewable sources as a
share of total electricity consumption rose further compared with the previous year to 26% (2023: 20%).
Our electricity consumption will increase significantly in future due to the planned gradual electrification
of our steam generation and the switch from natural gas-based to electricity-based, low-emission
production processes. Nevertheless, we aim to source more than 60% of our power needs from
renewable sources by 2030.
As regards the transformation of our power supply, we are pursuing a make and buy approach in the
short, medium and long term. Firstly, BASF is investing in its own renewable power assets. Secondly, we
are focusing on purchasing green power on the market through long-term supply agreements with plant
operators, green power purchase agreements or renewable energy certificates, depending on the region
and market regulations. Profitability and additionally are key purchasing criteria. The electricity purchased
here is primarily sourced from new renewable energy facilities.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 189
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In 2024, we successfully advanced our plan for sourcing power from renewable sources. The Hollandse
Kust Zuid offshore wind farm, a joint project with Vattenfall and Allianz, was commissioned successively
and has been fully operational since the summer of 2024. With 139 turbines and a capacity of
1.5 gigawatts, it is one of the largest subsidy-free offshore wind farms in the world. As part of a further
project, we have contractually agreed with Vattenfall to purchase 49% of the shares in the Nordlicht 1
and 2 offshore wind farms. Construction is due to start in 2026, subject to the final investment decision,
expected in 2025. The wind farms, which have a total capacity of 1.6 gigawatts, are being built without
government subsidies and should be fully operational in 2028. We plan to use just under half of the
electricity generated by these two wind farms to supply our production sites in Europe, and particularly
Ludwigshafen, Germany. In order to be able to fully supply our Verbund site in Zhanjiang in southern
China, which is currently under construction, with electricity from renewable sources in the future, we
have entered into a joint venture with Mingyang for an offshore wind farm in southern China, which
includes development, construction and operation. The planned wind farm in Zhanjiang in the Chinese
province of Guangdong will have a capacity of 500 megawatts and is scheduled to go into operation at
the end of 2025, subject to approval.
From the beginning of 2025, our new site in Zhanjiang will be supplied with 100% electricity from
renewable sources as a result of a supply agreement with the State Power Investment Corporation
(SPIC). In addition to the long-term supply agreement with the SPIC, we have entered into a supply
agreement with China Energy Engineering Group Guangdong Electric Power Design Institute (GEDI) to
source electricity from renewable sources over a period of 25 years. In 2023 and 2024, we also signed
further long-term supply agreements for green power at other sites in Asia, such as our three sites in
Jiangsu, China, and six production sites in South Korea. In North America, we were able to secure
around 150 megawatts17 of solar generation capacity through virtual power purchase agreements back in
2022. These solar power plants are already operational. Further long-term supply contracts exist with
X-ELIO, providing capacity of 48 megawatts of solar power to supply the Freeport, Texas, site and with
other developers, providing 33 megawatts of solar power for the Freeport site and more than
35 megawatts of wind energy for the Freeport and Pasadena sites in Texas. In some regions, we have
also acquired green power certificates. The aim is to gradually replace these temporary measures with
our own power assets or long-term supply agreements.
The carbon footprint of purchased electricity in 2024 was around 0.20 metric tons of CO per MWh
2
(market-based approach). For the 2024 business year, we were able to reduce our greenhouse gas
emissions by around 1 million metric tons of CO by using electricity from renewable sources (for more
2
information on the expected emission reductions, see our transition plan on page 186).
In 2024, we started operation of a stationary long-term sodium sulfur-based battery storage system
(NAS®) at our Schwarzheide site in Germany, driving forward integration of renewable energy. The
system supports the provision of power to individual plants from the site’s own solar park. BASF
Stationary Energy Storage GmbH markets the NAS batteries, which were developed by
NGK INSULATORS Ltd.
Operational excellence
Through our operational excellence projects, we aim to make our plants and processes even more
efficient and resource saving, thereby preventing CO emissions. Certified energy management systems
2
17 Adjustment of the capacity published in the BASF Report 2023 due to project-related changes
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 190
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
according to DIN EN ISO 50001 at all relevant production sites play a particularly important role here.18
These help us to continuously identify and implement potential for improvement in energy efficiency. This
not only reduces greenhouse gas emissions and saves valuable energy resources but also increases our
competitiveness.
In 2024, we implemented more than 450 measures to reduce energy and resource consumption and
increase our competitiveness, which led to a reduction in emissions of around 200,000 metric tons of
CO (for more information on the expected emission reductions, see our transition plan on page 186). For
2
example, optimizing process technology and energy usage at several plants at our Antwerp, Belgium,
site has enabled us to prevent more than 45,000 metric tons of CO emissions per year. This includes
2
measures to reduce natural gas, hydrogen and steam consumption as well as more effective catalytic
reduction of nitrous oxide. Enhanced heat integration with additional heat exchangers at a plant at our
site in Yeosu, South Korea, led to a reduction of 9,000 metric tons CO per year. Our site in Camaçari,
2
Brazil, reduced its natural gas consumption of the waste heat boiler and safety flares by optimizing
controls, cutting CO emissions by more than 5,000 metric tons per year.
2
Low-emission steam generation
Alongside electricity, steam generation is an important component of our energy supply. In the medium
to long term, new technologies should make a significant contribution to reducing CO , for example by
2
recovering energy from waste heat in our production and infrastructure facilities. In this context, we are
examining various concepts such as using electric heat pumps and e-boilers as well as electrifying steam
drives. We made initial progress toward low-emission steam generation in the reporting year: In 2024,
BASF received funding approval from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate
Action for constructing the world’s largest industrial heat pump, permitting emission-free steam
generation at its site in Ludwigshafen, Germany. The planned heat pump will have a capacity of up to
500,000 metric tons of steam per year. The waste heat, which is used as a thermal energy source, is
generated during the cooling and cleaning of process gases in one of the two steam crackers at the site.
Emission-free steam is generated using electricity from renewable sources and will primarily be used for
producing formic acid. This offers the potential to use the heat pump to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions produced by up to 98%. A smaller proportion of the emission-free steam is supplied to other
BASF production plants via the steam network at the site. In total, the heat pump, which is scheduled to
start operations in 2027, will reduce up to 100,000 metric tons of CO per year at the company’s
2
headquarters.
In addition, we are examining the use of geothermal energy at our site in Ludwigshafen, Germany, as part
of a strategic partnership with Vulcan Energy. Our partner has been performing initial seismic
measurements in the Upper Rhine Graben since early 2025. Assuming a successful outcome to
exploration in the Upper Rhine Graben, heat pumps could harness the geothermal energy to generate
emission-free steam. With a potential output of 300 megawatts of thermal energy, around 4 million metric
tons of this crucial energy carrier for the chemical industry could be produced per year. This would
prevent roughly 800,000 metric tons of CO emissions.
2
We are also focusing on low-emission steam generation at our site in Schwarzheide, Germany. The goal
there is to construct and operate a power-to-heat plant together with transmission systems operator
50Hertz. The plant will convert electricity from renewable sources into process heat. The planned plant
consists of a 25-megawatt electrode boiler and is scheduled to commence operations at the end of
2026.
18 Relevant sites are selected based on the amount of primary energy used and local energy prices.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 191
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Climate-smart technologies
To further abate CO emissions, we are also developing completely new technologies for emission-free
2
and low-emission production and are planning to scale them as far as possible from 2030 onward.
These technologies will need large volumes of electricity from renewable sources in order to realize their
full potential. The main focus here is on basic chemicals, which are often still emissions-intensive to
produce. This is the case with steam crackers, for example, which use large amounts of energy to break
down crude petroleum into olefins and aromatics – both important groups of substances for numerous
chemical value chains. The cracking reaction requires high temperatures of around 850°C, which until
now have been achieved by burning natural gas. Heating concepts using electricity from renewable
sources could reduce process-related emissions by at least 90% in future compared to today’s
conventional technologies. In 2024, together with our partners SABIC and Linde, we commissioned a
demonstration plant for electrically heated steam cracker furnaces at our site in Ludwigshafen,
Germany.19 This is where we are testing this new process, and associated direct and indirect heating
concepts, on an industrial scale. The prototype is completely integrated into one of the two existing
steam crackers at the site.
Another important basic material in the chemical industry is hydrogen, which we have so far mainly used
as a raw material. One common but emissions-intensive way of obtaining hydrogen is steam reforming.
We are testing an alternative process – methane pyrolysis – in Ludwigshafen, Germany. This process is
virtually emission-free if renewable energy is used and requires considerably less electricity compared
with other methods such as water electrolysis. We successfully tested a new reactor concept at the test
plant, which was commissioned in 2021, and demonstrated stable operations. This has overcome the
first important technical hurdle for further scaling. We also continued construction of a PEM20 (proton
exchange membrane) water electrolyzer with a capacity of 54 megawatts at the Ludwigshafen site in
Germany with Siemens Energy. The plant went into operation in March 2025. Powered by electricity from
renewable energy sources, the electrolyzer produces up to 8,000 metric tons of emission-free hydrogen
and thus reduces greenhouse gas emissions at the site by up to 72,000 metric tons per year. BASF will
primarily use the hydrogen produced as a raw material for the manufacture of products with a reduced
Product Carbon Footprint. We also agreed a partnership with Envision Energy, a leading provider of
sustainable technologies, at the beginning of 2024. The objective is to drive forward the conversion of
green hydrogen and CO into e-methanol, a more sustainable energy source. BASF is contributing its
2
catalyst technologies expertise. In addition, we are expecting new hydrogen applications to emerge in
the future, such as its use as an independent or a basic material for sustainable energy carriers, and that
demand for hydrogen is likely to increase as a result. Access to large quantities of low-emission or
emission-free hydrogen at competitive costs is therefore becoming increasingly important for BASF.
Another focus area of our technological development is carbon capture and storage (CCS). Together with
partners, we are examining an industrial CCS project at the Antwerp site in Belgium (Kairos@C) as the
first phase of the Antwerp@C project, which could enable BASF to prevent the release of emissions from
production of up to 1 million metric tons of CO into the atmosphere every year.
2
Actions along our value chain
As part of our supplier management, we continuously review compliance with our required criteria when
selecting suppliers and assessing new and existing supplier relationships. We urge our suppliers to
reduce CO emissions. We arrange for third parties to evaluate suppliers with a high sustainability risk
2
using either on-site audits or sustainability assessments by rating agency EcoVadis. Supplier assessment
is mainly performed as part of the chemical industry’s Together for Sustainability initiative. Depending on
19 The project has been granted €14.8 million from Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK) under the Decarbonization in Industry funding
program. It is also being financed by the European Union via the NextGenerationEU fund.
20 The project is funded by Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action (BMWK) and the Federal State of Rhineland-Palatinate.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 192
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
business requirements, we perform our own Responsible Care audits at selected contract manufacturers
if material risks have been identified with respect to environmental protection. This also covers the topic
of CO emissions.
2
We launched the Supplier CO Management Program in 2021 to achieve transparency with respect to
2
our raw materials-related emissions. The goal is to obtain a more accurate data base and to better
manage and reduce emissions in the supply chain. In a first step, we have requested the Product Carbon
Footprints (PCFs) of our raw materials since then and support our suppliers in determining these, for
example, by sharing our knowledge of assessment and calculation methods with them. Since the start of
the program, we have asked more than 1,900 suppliers, accounting for around 80% of our raw materials-
related greenhouse gas emissions. After around three years, we have validated PCFs for more than
1,700 of our raw materials. This corresponds to a coverage of almost 30% in relation to the greenhouse
gas emissions of our raw materials. We are working to further enhance the transparency of the PCFs for
our raw materials.
In addition, we launched the next phase of our Supplier CO Management Program in 2024, so as to
2
agree PCF reduction pathways with our suppliers. We use dialog forums to exchange with suppliers
about opportunities, challenges and BASF’s specific expectations regarding PCF reductions. One
example are the BASF Supplier Days that were held on the topic of Scope 3.1 emissions for the first time
in 2024 in Ludwigshafen, Germany (Europe Region) and São Paulo, Brazil (South America Region). The
format is to be rolled out to regions Asia Pacific and North America as well in 2025. We are also
enhancing our purchasing processes and establishing PCFs as a relevant criterion for raw materials in
the procurement requirement.
To replace fossil raw materials, we signed a long-term purchase contract for certified biomethane with
ENGIE in 2024. This will be used at our Verbund sites in Antwerp, Belgium, and Ludwigshafen, Germany.
Consequently, we will be able to reduce the carbon footprint of sales products in sectors such as the
automotive, packaging and detergent industries using our mass balance approach (see page 250). In
another project, we have agreed an innovative approach to reducing the carbon footprint of the products
from Graphit Kropfmühl, a subsidiary of AMG Critical Materials N.V. We supply the company with
Guarantees of Origins for electricity from renewable sources, reducing the PCF of the graphite produced.
We then use the graphite as a raw material for a reduced-PCF variant of our insulation material Neopor®.
In addition to reducing our raw materials-related emissions (Scope 3.1), we are taking targeted measures
to reduce Scope 3 emissions along the entire value chain. To reduce the emissions from transporting our
products (Scope 3.9), the Monomers division has developed a shipment emissions dashboard that
enables us to share standardized, reliable data on shipment-related emissions with our customers and
identify the most sustainable means of transportation. Moreover, we rely on product adaptations to
reduce emissions from the use of sold products (Scope 3.11): For example, climate-damaging blowing
agents for foaming polyurethane foams can now be largely dispensed within the downstream value
chain. Thanks to these and other measures, we have been able to reduce our emissions from the use of
sold products (Scope 3.11) by around 73% since 2018.21 We also want to reduce emissions resulting
from the disposal of our products (Scope 3.12). This can be done, for example, through the increased
use of renewable raw materials or circular solutions (see page 247). Both ensure that less and less CO
2
pollutes the atmosphere throughout the life cycle of our products.
21 BASF operations without oil and gas business
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 193
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Product Carbon Footprints
In 2024, we further expanded our portfolio of products with a certified reduced carbon footprint. These
include ammonia and urea products and the intermediate butanediol, which our customers process in
the manufacture of textile fibers, solvents and engineering plastics. Since the end of 2024, we are
offering our customers bio-based and biomass balance-based ethyl acrylate – a more sustainable
alternative for use in manufacturing adhesives and coatings, among other things. We already offer net-
zero carbon footprint versions of some of our products; these include the polyamide Ultramid® and
AdBlue®, an exhaust gas reducing agent for diesel engines, which we offer as Ultramid® ZeroPCF and
AdBlue® ZeroPCF by BASF. These lower PCFs are primarily made possible by the substitution of fossil
raw materials. For example, we use partially or fully renewable, waste-based or recycled raw materials to
produce low PCF and zero PCF products. These include castor oil, biomethane or pyrolysis oil from
plastic waste. These alternative resources often have a lower carbon footprint compared with fossil raw
materials. The alternative resources are allocated to the end product using the mass balance approach
(see page 250). Furthermore, we use electricity from renewable sources to reduce our PCFs.
The digital methodology we have developed to calculate PCFs meets general life cycle analysis
standards such as ISO 14040, ISO 14044 and ISO 14067, as well as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Product Standard. A certification from TÜV Rheinland confirms that our calculation method and reporting
fully comply with the requirements of Together for Sustainability (TfS). We make our automated PCF
calculation approach available to interested industry players through partnerships. At the same time, we
are involved in various initiatives to drive transparency, harmonization and standardization across the
industry. This also takes place as part of TfS, where we have been involved in the creation and revision of
a uniform guideline for calculating the carbon footprint of products in the chemical industry. This enables
the climate impact of products to be directly compared and evaluated based on a standardized
approach. Harmonizing the approaches used to calculate PCFs allows us to better steer greenhouse gas
emissions that arise during the extraction of raw materials or the manufacture of precursors. A digital
solution developed by TfS and Siemens for sharing PCF data between companies was launched in
October 2024. We have been migrating our queries to this solution since the end of 2024. Equally, it has
been possible to share data within the Catena-X network, in which we work together with partners in the
automotive value chain, since 2024.
»For more information on Product Carbon Footprints, see basf.com/en/pcf
Global targets
E1-4
As an energy-intensive company that generates and consumes energy in the form of electricity and
steam and that processes fossil raw materials, we are responsible for greenhouse gas emissions that
negatively impact the climate (see also “Impacts, risks and opportunities from our business activities”
from page 181 onward). We accept this responsibility and are pursuing ambitious climate protection
targets.22
22 We report on greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard as well as the sector-specific standard for the chemical industry. Our
targets include future organic growth and investments. They are based on the scope of consolidation using the financial control method and are audited in the context of the
annual report. For information on compatibility with the 1.5°C scenario, see page 185.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 194
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Scope 1 and 2
Based on the 2018 base year, we want to achieve a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from
our production processes (Scope 1) and our energy purchases (Scope 2) by 2030.23 Our target focuses
on emissions caused by our production and includes 96% of our gross Scope 1 emissions and 99% of
our gross Scope 2 emissions. This means that we aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from
21.9 million metric tons to 16.4 million metric tons – despite our growth plans and the construction of a
new Verbund site in southern China. This corresponds to a decrease of around 60% compared with
1990. Our long-term target is to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.23 We consider
future developments in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in line with the requirements of the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. When recalculating the emissions from the base year, we have set ourselves a
limit of 5% cumulative deviations from the base year.
Greenhouse gas emissions of the BASF Group (Scope 1 and 2)a
Million metric tons of CO equivalents
2
a Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). The target includes greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which are
b c T o h n e v f e ig r u te r d e f in o t r o 2 C 02 O 3 2 h e a q s u i b v e a e le n n t a s d ( j C us O te 2e d ) . to reflect updated data.
In 2024, the BASF Group’s emissions from production and energy purchases23 amounted to 17.0 million
metric tons of CO equivalents (2023: 17.0 million metric tons of CO equivalents24). The slight rise in
2 2
demand year on year lifted production volumes and thus resulted in higher CO emissions. At the same
2
time, we increased the share of electricity from renewable sources compared with the previous year to
26% and, together with measures to increase energy and process efficiency, made a relevant
contribution to reducing emissions. All in all, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions in BASF’s
operations by 58% since 1990.
Scope 3.1
We set ourselves an ambitious Scope 3.1 target25 for our specific raw materials-related emissions in
2023. This includes around 92% of our Scope 3.1 emissions based on the base year. By 2030, we want
to reduce these in relation to the purchasing volume specifically by 15% from the 2022 base year.
Consequently, we are planning to reduce our specific Scope 3.1 emissions from 1.64 kilograms of CO
2
per kilogram of raw materials purchased in the base year 2022 to 1.39 kilograms in the target year
2030.25 Through our commitment, we aim to keep our target-relevant Scope 3.1 emissions roughly
23 Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding the sale of energy to third parties). The emissions account for 96% of total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in relation to the base year. The
target includes greenhouse gases according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which are converted into CO2 equivalents (CO2e). Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the
market-based approach in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Based on the aforementioned emission reduction levers, we assume a reduction in Scope 1
emissions of around 14% between 2018 and 2030. We aim to reduce Scope 2 emissions by around 75% in the same period. The target is aligned with limiting global
warming to a global average of 1.5°C, and is thus science-based. It has not been externally audited.
24 The figure for 2023 has been adjusted to reflect updated data.
25 Scope 3.1, gross emissions from raw materials excluding battery materials, excluding services, technical goods and greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business.
The emissions account for 52% of total Scope 3 emissions based on the 2024 business year. The target is not science-based and has not been externally audited. We
adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the availability of further primary data.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 195
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
constant at 50 million metric tons of CO equivalents by 2030 despite growing production. We have
2
recalculated our base value for our Scope 3.1 target in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 3
Standard, due to a change in secondary data and to the ongoing improvement in primary data availability
under our Supplier CO Management Program (see “Actions along our value chain” on page 192). This
2
preserves comparability between the base year and current business years.
Raw materials-related emissions from battery materials are initially excluded from the target. Battery
materials make a significant contribution to reducing CO emissions and thus facilitate the transformation
2
of the transportation sector. Required raw materials such as lithium, nickel and cobalt will not be able to
be replaced by more sustainable alternatives in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, associated
emissions cannot be reduced significantly in the short term. As soon as recyclable solutions come into
play with the increase in available end-of-life batteries, we will include these raw materials in our target
definition (for more information on our battery recycling activities, see page 254).
In the long term, we are striving to reduce Scope 3.1 emissions to an unavoidable minimum by 2050,
thereby expanding our long-term net-zero target to include these greenhouse gas emissions.
Greenhouse gas emissions of the BASF Group (Scope 3.1)
a Scope 3.1, raw materials excluding battery materials, excluding services, technical goods and greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business
b We adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the availability of further primary data.
c The value for 2023 was adjusted due to increased data availability.
In 2024, specific Scope 3.1 emissions26 amounted to 1.58 kilograms of CO per kilogram of raw materials
2
purchased (2023: 1.67 kilograms27). The reduction in specific emissions is mainly attributable to a change
in the raw materials portfolio. In addition, first raw materials were purchased from suppliers who offer
these with a lower PCF.
We monitor progress toward our targets annually as part of our strategic controlling activities.
For an overview of our greenhouse gas emissions – broken down by operational control and financial
control – see page 200. Our projection of target-relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for 2025 can
be found in the forecast on page 82 onward.
26 Scope 3.1, raw materials excluding battery materials, excluding services, technical goods and greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business. The emissions
account for 52% of total Scope 3 emissions based on the 2024 business year. We adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the
availability of further primary data.
27 The value for 2023 was adjusted due to increased data availability.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 196
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Target setting was preceded by an analysis of expected business developments, external requirements
relating to emission reduction targets and internal implementation opportunities, including the use of pilot
plants to develop technical solutions. In addition, cost estimates were developed for planned actions.
A Supplier CO Management Program was established and support was provided for the development of
2
standards such as TfS before the Scope 3.1 target was introduced. This approach was designed to
ensure that the targets were not only ambitious but also implementable. We discuss the sustainability
topics that are material for BASF at regular meetings with external stakeholders forming part of our
strategic stakeholder engagement activities, and in discussions with investors. In this way, stakeholder
expectations are continuously taken into account in the development of strategic sustainability
management approaches, targets and principles.
Carbon credits
E1-7
As part of the above stated targets, we have committed to reducing our Scope 1, 2 and 3.1 emissions to
net zero by 2050. Despite all our efforts, we expect there to be a residual share of emissions in 2050 that
cannot be abated using technical or economic approaches. We are aiming to offset all remaining
emissions by 2050 inclusive through high-quality, high-credibility nature-based and technical measures,
such as the sequestration of CO into the soil through farming (carbon farming). We are planning to use
2
ratings such as BeZero and Sylvera, and initiatives such as the Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon
Market (ICVCM), its Core Carbon Principles and carbon credits assessed using them. At the same time,
we are developing internal standards for evaluating projects and considering whether to develop our own
projects. We are also evaluating using/developing a project under the European Carbon Removal and
Carbon Farming Certification Framework (CRCF). In view of this situation, we will likely use a portfolio of
different credits, and will rely on well-known standards such as Verra and Gold Standard, but also credits
under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and the CRCF. BASF did not use any carbon credits in the past
business year.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 197
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Metrics
Energy supply
E1-5
Our total energy consumption28 amounted to 75.6 million MWh in 2024. Total energy consumption
includes fuel demand for our own energy generation and production plants, plus power and steam
imports for our own use.
BASF Group’s energy consumption and mix
Million MWh 2024
Financial control Operational control
Total energy consumption 75.6 74.8
Fuel consumption from renewable sources (biomass) 0.0 0.0
Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam,
and cooling from renewable sources 3.6 3.6
Consumption of self-generated
nonfuel renewable energy 0.0 0.0
Total energy consumption from renewable sources 3.6 3.6
Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption % 4.8 4.8
Fuel consumption from coal and coal products 1.1 1.1
Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products 0.3 0.3
Fuel consumption from natural gas 33.7 33.0
Fuel consumption from other fossil sourcesa 27.7 27.5
Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, or
cooling from fossil sources 9.0 9.3
Total energy consumption from fossil sources 71.9 71.2
Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption % 95.2 95.2
Total energy consumption from nuclear sourcesb 0.0 0.0
Share of nuclear sources in total energy consumption % 0.0 0.0
Energy production from renewable sources 0.0 0.0
Energy production from fossil sources 43.8 43.0
Energy intensity (total energy consumption per sales million MWh/
revenue)c billion € 1.16 1.15
a Residues from chemical production plants that cannot be reused in the BASF Verbund.
b Only contracts aimed at the use of nuclear energy are included.
c Energy intensity is determined on the basis of the “manufacturing” high climate impact sector. The sales revenue from high climate impact sectors corresponds to the
sales revenue in the report on the Results of Operations (see page 46).
The generation of our own steam and power in highly efficient and predominately natural gas-based
combined heat and power plants and our Verbund system are key to CO -optimized energy supply at our
2
sites. In the latter, waste heat generated during one plant’s production process is used as energy in other
plants. Thanks to combined heat and power generation and our continuously optimized Energy Verbund,
we were able to prevent a total of 6.1 million metric tons of CO emissions29 in 2024 compared with
2
separate, fossil-based power and steam generation without the use of the Verbund system.
28 Consolidation by financial control; adjusted to include by-product streams that are used as energy sources in the process plants compared with the prior-year figure
29 Calculation basis: electricity conversion efficiency of conventional power plants 45%; steam generation efficiency 90%
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 198
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Corporate carbon footprint
E1-6
BASF has published a comprehensive corporate carbon footprint every year since 2008. This reports on
all emissions along the value chain – from raw materials extraction to production and disposal. We are
continually working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions both in our own production and, together with
our partners, along the value chain (see “Strategy and governance”).
In 2024, our greenhouse gas emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol including Scope 1
and Scope 2 emissions30 amounted to 17.948 million metric tons of CO equivalents
2
(2023: 17.902 million metric tons of CO equivalents31). Of this amount, 87% were Scope 1 emissions
2
(2023: 87%) and 13% were Scope 2 emissions (2023: 13%). Carbon dioxide was by far the largest
component and accounted for 98% of emissions (2023: 98%).
Scope 3 emissions arising upstream and downstream of our operations in the value chain are calculated
in accordance with the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard published
by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the WBCSD Guidance for Accounting and Reporting Corporate
GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain (WBCSD Chemicals). For 2024, we calculated
Scope 3 emissions of around 92 million metric tons of CO equivalents.32 There was an increase in total
2
emissions along the BASF value chain in 2024 due to the slight year-on-year increase in production
volumes. The share of emissions that were calculated using primary data33 amounted to 21% in the
business year.
CO emissions along the BASF value chain in 2024a
2
Million metric tons of CO equivalents
2
a According to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard; Scope 1, 2 and 3; reported categories within Scope 3 are shown in parentheses. Scope 3 emissions in
category 10 (“Processing of sold products”) are not reported according to the standard for the chemical sector. Only direct use phase emissions are reported in the
customer category (Scope 3.11). Excluding greenhouse gas emissions from BASF trading business.
The largest contribution to emissions along the value chain in 2024 was in category 3.1 (purchased raw
materials and technical goods and services) at 52 million metric tons of CO equivalents.32 To calculate
2
these upstream greenhouse gas emissions, we use both primary data from our suppliers from the
Supplier CO Management Program (see page 193) and industrial averages and values from external
2
databases.34 Apart from raw materials-related emissions, the disposal of our products (Scope 3.12)
accounts for the second-largest share of our Scope 3 emissions at around 24 million metric tons of
CO equivalents.
2
»For additional information on our emissions reporting, see basf.com/corporate_carbon_footprint
»For more information on the Supplier CO Management Program, see basf.com/suppliers
2
30 Market-based approach, including sale of energy to third parties
31 The figure for 2023 has been adjusted to reflect updated data.
32 In 2024, we adjusted the calculation of Scope 3 emissions in category 3.1 due to increased availability of primary and secondary data. For additional information on the
calculation method, see basf.com/corporate_carbon_footprint.
33 Primary data in this case is data provided directly by our partners in the value chain.
34 The database values are updated on an annual basis. Significant changes in these values are reflected accordingly in our calculations.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 199
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
BASF Group’s greenhouse gas emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Retrospective Milestones and target years
Reduction
each year
Million metric tons of CO2 on
equivalents 2024 2023 Difference 2024/2023 Base year 2025 2030 2050 average
Financial Operational Financial Operational Financial Operational Financial Financial Financial Financial Financial
control control control control control control control control control control control
Scope 1a 2018
CO (carbon dioxide) 14.402 14.202 14.345 – 0% – 17.025 – – – –
2
NO (nitrous oxide) 0.176 0.172 0.239 – -26% – 0.667 – – – –
2
CH (methane) 0.027 0.022 0.025 – +8% – 0.027 – – – –
4
HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) 0.035 0.035 0.026 – +35% – 0.091 – – – –
PFCs (perfluorocarbons) 0 0 0 – 0% – 0 – – – –
SF (sulfur hexafluoride) 0.001 0.001 0.000 – . – 0.000 – – – –
6
NF (nitrogen trifluoride) 0 0 0 – 0% – 0 – – – –
3
TotalZ 14.641 14.432 14.635 – 0% – 17.810 – – – –
Sale of energy to third parties
(Scope 1)b 0.874 0.746 0.927 – -6% – 0.773 – – – –
Scope 1 emissions
(nonproduction companies) 0.037 0.038 – – – – – – – – –
Gross Scope 1 emissions 15.552 15.216 15.562 – 0% – 18.583 – – – –
Percentage of Scope 1 emissions
from regulated emission trading
schemesc 66 % 66 % – – – – – – – – –
Scope 2 2018
Scope 2 emissions
(nonproduction companies)d 0.044 0.044 – – – – – – – – –
Location-based Scope 2
emissions (production
companies) 3.520 3.587 3.317 – +6% – 3.747 – – – –
Market-based Scope 2 emissions
(production companies)Z 2.352 2.416 2.340e – +1% – 4.067 – – – –
Gross location-based Scope 2
emissions 3.564 3.631 3.317 – +7% – 3.747 – – – –
Gross market-based Scope 2
emissions 2.396 2.460 2.340 – +2% – 4.067 – – – –
Share of electricity consumption
by market-based calculationf 46 % 47 % – – – – – – – – –
Total target-relevant Scope 1
and Scope 2 emissionsZ 16.993 – 16.975e – 0% – 21.877 – 16.4 0 2.1%
Scope 3 2022
Total gross Scope 3 emissions 91.64 94.49 – – – – – – – – –
1 – Purchased goods and
services 52.34 54.13 – – – – 54.13g – – 0 –
2 – Capital goods 1.84 1.81 – – – – – – – – –
3 - Activities related to fuels and
energies (not included in Scope 1
or Scope 2) 2.63 2.61 – – – – – – – – –
4 – Upstream transportation and
distribution 2.32 2.32 – – – – – – – – –
5 – Waste generated in
operations 0.76 0.75 – – – – – – – – –
6 – Business travel 0.12 0.12 – – – – – – – – –
7 – Employee commuting 0.20 0.20 – – – – – – – – –
8 – Upstream leased assets 0.15 0.16 – – – – – – – – –
9 – Downstream transportation 1.49 1.53 – – – – – – – – –
11 – Use of sold products 3.01 3.01 – – – – – – – – –
12 – End-of-life treatment of sold
products 24.23 24.75 – – – – – – – – –
15 – Investments 2.56 3.12 – – – – – – – – –
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 200
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
BASF Group’s greenhouse gas emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Retrospective Milestones and target years
Reduction
each year
Million metric tons of CO2 on
equivalents 2024 2023 Difference 2024/2023 Base year 2025 2030 2050 average
Financial Operational Financial Operational Financial Operational Financial Financial Financial Financial Financial
control control control control control control control control control control control
Total
Total emissions (site-based) 110.76 113.34 – – – – – – – – –
Total emissions (market-based) 109.59 112.17 – – – – – – – – –
Other metrics
Biogenic CO emissions from the
2
combustion or bio-degradation of
biomass (Scope 1)h 0.140 0.140 0.112 – +25% – – – – – –
Biogenic Scope 2 emissions from
the combustion of biomassi 0.053 0 – – – – – – – – –
Biogenic Scope 3 emissions from
the combustion or bio-
degradation of biomass in the
value chainj 1.23 1.23 – – – – – – – – –
Offsettingk 0 0 0 – 0% – 0 – – – –
Total emissions (location-based)
per sales revenue (million metric
tons COe/billion €)l 1.697 1.737 – – – – – – – – –
2
Total emissions (market-based)
per sales revenue (million metric
tons COe/billion €)l 1.679 1.719 – – – – – – – – –
2
a Emissions of N2O, CH4, SF6 and NF3 are converted into CO2 emissions using the global warming potential (GWP) factor. GWP factors are based on the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2007, Errata table 2012 for the reporting year 2018, and IPCC 2014 for the reporting year 2024, in line with the requirements of the
EU ETS methodology. HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) and PFCs (perfluorocarbons) are calculated using the GWP factors for their individual components.
b Includes sales to BASF Group companies; as a result, emissions reported under Scope 2 can be considered twice in some cases.
c The emissions trading schemes from the following states/unions of states were used in the calculation: China, Germany, Europe, Shanghai, Switzerland, South Korea.
Information subject to official review, which had not yet been completed at the time of the editorial deadline.
d The emissions are estimated on the basis of location-based emission factors, since no information on market-based factors is available.
e The comparative figure for 2023 has been adjusted to reflect updated data.
f The market- and location-based concept is applied exclusively to electricity.
g We adjusted the baseline in line with the TfS Guideline in the reporting year due to the availability of further primary data.
h The emissions are disclosed outside of Scope 1 in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard.
i The emissions are disclosed outside of Scope 2 in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard.
j The emissions are disclosed outside of Scope 3 in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard. Only biogenic emissions from category 3.12 are included in
the calculation. We do not have any information about other biogenic emissions along our value chain.
k Offsetting relates to carbon credits utilized in the reporting year.
l The sales revenue used to calculate the GHG intensity corresponds to the sales revenue in the report on the Results of Operations (see page 46).
z Emissions labeled with this footnote are included in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions target.
BASF reports its Scope 2 emissions using the market-based approach in accordance with the
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. In 2024, the share of total electricity consumption determined in accordance
with the market-based approach was 45.9%. Contractual instruments such as energy attribute
certificates (Guarantee of Origins, I-RECs), also in the form of power purchase agreements, local
contracts to source renewable energy and supplier-specific electricity labels are used for this purpose.
Information on methodologies, significant assumptions, factors and calculation tools that are used to
calculate direct greenhouse gas emissions can be found among other places in General Disclosures in
the Sustainability Statement from page 150 onward. We use supplier data where possible to calculate
our market-based Scope 2 emissions. Where such data is not available, we rely on country-specific
residual mix and grid-average emission factors respectively. In this case we use information from the
International Energy Agency and the United States Environmental Protection Agency, among other
sources. When calculating our Scope 3 emissions, we prefer to use primary data in particular for
category 3.1. In the case of secondary data, we rely on leading life cycle analysis databases.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 201
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The following table explains the calculation approaches used for the individual Scope 3 categories.
Calculation methodologies for Scope 3 categories
Scope 3 category Calculation methodology
1 Purchased goods and services The raw materials-related Scope 3.1 emissions are calculated per raw
material, purchasing BASF company and supplier in those cases in
which a supplier-specific PCF is available for the raw material. If no
supplier-specific PCF is available, we use PCF values from databases
(industry association data, GaBi, ecoinvent), publications or expert
estimates. We record the packaging used globally and break it down
into categories for which life cycle inventories were created. The data
for technical goods and services is recorded by Procurement. Based
on the SCI (Standard Industrial Classification) system, the segments
are assigned a code, which is used to calculate emissions using
emission factors from DEFRA (the United Kingdom Government’s
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs).
2 Capital goods See the calculation for emissions from technical goods and services
(3.1)
3 Activities related to fuels and energies Fuel used and purchased volumes of electricity and steam are
(not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) captured annually in an internal BASF EHS database. Emissions from
fuel usage are calculated using regionally differentiated emission
factors from the GaBi database, based on the type of fuel involved
(coal, natural gas, LPG, light and heavy heating oil).
The fuels used to generate purchased electricity and steam are
determined using regional average values, after which the emissions
are calculated in the same way as for purchased fuels. A conversion
efficiency of 37% for electricity and 82.5% for steam is assumed.
4 Upstream transportation and distribution Emissions are calculated on the basis of emission factors from
EcoTransIT. Where no information about transportation distances is
available, these are estimated by experts. It is assumed that almost all
goods are transported by truck. Exceptions to this are the
transportation of raw materials and naphtha in Europe and the
transportation of all industrial gases and natural gas. In these cases the
assumptions published by CEFIC (the European Chemical Industry
Council) are used.
5 Waste generated in operations A distinction is made in waste disposal between solid waste and
wastewater. In addition, a distinction is made between different
disposal routes for solid waste. It is assumed that the carbon content
of solid waste corresponds to the average carbon content of the
purchased raw materials. In the case of incineration, total conversion
into CO is assumed. In the cases of incineration plus energy recovery
2
and landfill, emission factors from the ELCD (European Reference Life
Cycle Database) are used.
CO emissions from wastewater are calculated on the basis of experts’
2
estimates of the carbon content. Potential nitrous oxide emissions are
not taken into consideration. In the case of sewage sludge treatment,
only disposal via incineration and the resulting CO emissions are
2
included.
It is assumed that no landfill is used and hence that no methane
emissions arise.
6 Business travel Data is captured by the travel agents commissioned by BASF and by
other mobility service providers. If no primary data is available from
these service providers, we use emission factors from DEFRA (flights,
rental cars and trains) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) (train travel and rental cars).
7 Employee commuting Emissions are determined on the basis of a survey of BASF SE
employees and then estimated on this basis for all employees in
Europe.
We use statistical data for the other regions. DEFRA data are used for
the emission factors in Europe and Asia Pacific, and EPA data for
North and South America.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 202
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Calculation methodologies for Scope 3 categories
Scope 3 category Calculation methodology
8 Upstream leased assets This category comprises leased cars, leased office and storage space
and leased equipment. Average values provided by the manufacturers
are used for leased cars, broken down by drive system and engine
size.
In the case of electric vehicles we use the regional CO emission
2
factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency). Since data
availability varies, we extrapolate global emissions on the basis of
BASF SE data and the number of staff. Emissions for leased office and
storage space are calculated using the IEA’s regional emission factors
for electricity and internal standard values for steam. Energy
consumption is assumed by region per m2 on the basis of average
values. Emissions from leased equipment are calculated in the same
way as emissions from technical goods (3.1).
9 Downstream transportation Greenhouse gas emissions from BASF’s freight transports are
calculated as well-to-wheel (WtW) emissions using the EcoTransIT
World (ETW) IT solution, drawing on transportation data from BASF’s
ERP system.
11 Use of sold products This category comprises direct emissions in BASF products’ use
phase. Since most products undergo further processing, this primarily
relates to CO that is passed on to the food industry; emissions from
2
blowing agents needed to produce polyurethane foams; emissions
from the production of polyurethanes from polyol and isocyanates; and
emissions from the use of fertilizers, urea and carbonates (baking
powder). We use our own purchase and sales volume data to calculate
the emissions.
12 End-of-life treatment of sold products Sales volumes and the carbon content of BASF’s sales products are
used to calculate emissions. It is assumed that the products are
disposed of in the regions in which they were sold. Regional
differences in disposal routes are taken into account. The annual
shares of the different disposal routes for municipal waste are taken
from the following sources: Eurostat, OECDStat, UNStats and IDB. In
the case of waste disposal by incineration or landfill, it is assumed that
all the carbon contained in the product is ultimately emitted as CO.
2
15 Investments Greenhouse gas emissions from joint ventures and associated
companies accounted for using the equity method and not included in
BASF’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Emissions from production
sites are captured directly using a database query.
Internal carbon pricing
E1-8
We use shadow prices in the form of price projections to factor in the costs of CO emissions when
2
assessing investment projects. These shadow prices differ by region (Europe, Asia and North America)
and represent the expected developments in these economic areas in the decades up to 2050. In view of
the different ways in which the global economy could potentially develop, BASF currently uses three
different scenarios (for more on the scenarios see page 180), which are also used to analyze transition
risks. The scenarios and the prices derived from them were developed together with an external
cooperation partner. The fundamental drivers for the scenarios are different societal preferences and,
building on these, climate and economic policy objectives. The result is a price per metric ton of CO
2
equivalents of up to €340, depending on the year. This is used for all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
caused by investments (capex) by our companies worldwide, and is included in the cost calculations. As
a result, the emissions caused or reduced are directly included in the decision-making process. This
favors investments in low-emission measures and measures that contribute to reducing emissions.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 203
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Since the investments will be made in the future, they are not included in the reported emissions for the
business year. Consequently, the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions for the current year covered
by shadow prices amount to 0 metric tons of CO equivalents in each case. In the Consolidated Financial
2
Statements, the shadow prices were only used for the valuation of the climate protection agreement that
BASF concluded with the Federal Republic of Germany to fund a heat pump at the Ludwigshafen site.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 204
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
E2 Pollution Prevention
ESRS E2
We work continuously to reduce environmental impacts caused by our
business activities. This includes preventing or reducing emissions to air
and water, which we achieve first and foremost by operating our plants
safely and efficiently. We are also committed to our responsibility for
environmental protection throughout the entire value chain in order to
reduce the impacts on air and water. In addition, we develop product
solutions for our customers that enable them to reduce emissions.
ESRS 2 IRO-1
As part of our double materiality assessment conducted in 2024 (see page 167), the topic Environment
was identified as material. In particular, the assessment identified emissions to air and water as relevant
subtopics for the business activities of BASF. Emissions to air in the form of air pollutants, such as
nitrogen oxides and ammonia, are produced in connection with energy generation and in our production
processes. We use water as a coolant, solvent and cleaning agent as well as to make our products. We
utilize waterways for the purpose of transporting goods. Most of the water used at our production sites is
purified and largely reused multiple times, before being discharged as wastewater. Organic substances
and heavy metals, for instance, are thus emitted.
Our double materiality assessment reveals nine material impacts on the environment and two material
risks for BASF (see the table “Results of the double materiality assessment”).
Results of the double materiality assessment for E2 Pollution Prevention: Impacts
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Regular emissions to air (excluding Negative Upstream value chain Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air
greenhouse gases; GHG) in (mining/mineral pollution are generated in connection with the
connection with the manufacture of extraction industry) mining and extraction of raw materials in our
extracted raw materials upstream value chain in the mining and mineral
extraction industries.
Regular emissions to air (excluding Negative Upstream value chain Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air
GHG) in connection with the (excluding mining/ pollution are generated by the production of
production of precursors and mineral extraction precursors and intermediates in our upstream
intermediates industry) value chain.
Regular emissions to water Negative Upstream value chain Emissions to water contributing to water pollution
are generated by the production and extraction of
raw materials, precursors and intermediates in our
upstream value chain.
Regular emissions to air (excluding Negative BASF’s own Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air
GHG) operations pollution, such as nitrogen oxides, particles and
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are generated
in connection with production in our plants.
Regular emissions to water Negative BASF’s own Emissions to water contributing to water pollution,
operations such as nitrogen compounds, organic substances
and heavy metals, are generated in connection
with production in our plants.
Regular emissions to air (excluding Negative Downstream value Emissions to air (excluding GHG) contributing to air
GHG) in connection with the usage, chain pollution are generated in connection with the
further processing, transport, usage, further processing, transportation, storage
storage and disposal of our and disposal of our products by our customers.
products
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 205
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for E2 Pollution Prevention: Impacts
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Regular emissions to water Negative Downstream value Emissions to water contributing to water pollution
chain are generated in connection with the usage, further
processing, transportation, storage and disposal of
our products by our customers.
Chemical leakages Negative, BASF’s own Potential chemical leakages in our own operations,
potential operations, as well as in upstream/downstream processing,
upstream and may result in pollution of water and therefore
downstream value environmental pollution.
chain
Impact on human health and the Negative, Downstream value Due to the sale of products containing substances
environment of substances of (very potential chain of concern or of very high concern, irresponsible
high) concern and improper handling of these products in the
downstream value chain may result in water or soil
pollution or to an adverse impact on the
environment or human health.
Results of the double materiality assessment for E2 Pollution Prevention: Risks and opportunities
Risks Evaluation Description
Increased costs for water treatment due to Negative Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may
regulatory changes. require investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our
systems.
Regulations with respect to substances of (very Negative Regulatory changes on substances of concern or of very high
high) concern may have a negative impact on concern, such as their restriction, may limit the availability of
the market, for procurement, BASF’s own relevant raw materials and negatively impact market behavior
production or sales. and customer acceptance.
As a result of our double materiality assessment, emissions into the soil are not deemed as material for
BASF. Moreover, generated and used microplastic does not represent a material topic for BASF either.
We systematically record all short and long-term opportunities and risks linked to environmental impacts
as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87
onward).
We considered all BASF sites and their operations as the basis for the double materiality assessment.
Emissions to air and water are systematically documented and reviewed in a Group-wide database.
Pollutant-related impacts are assessed and documented continuously. In addition, the screening of new
sites includes environmental impact assessments by independent third parties. As part of internal
approval processes, risks associated with environmental impacts are assessed and documented in an
environmental statement. When assessing the upstream and downstream value chain, we are aware of
the risks associated with the production and handling of chemical substances and draw on our own
experience.
We aim to even better understand our impact on our environment in terms of emissions to air and water
and include the perspectives of surrounding communities in our decision-making and activities. We are
therefore committed to dialog based on a spirit of trust and maintain close relations with surrounding
communities at our BASF sites. We provide information on the topic of emissions to air and water, issue
updates on the latest developments, set up hotlines for immediate contact and availability as well as
hosting neighborhood forums where concerns about environmental impacts, such as emissions to air
and water, can be voiced (see also page 308). In addition, we participate in dialog forums and advisory
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 206
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
bodies, such as our Nature Advisory Council, which we established together with external specialists,
where we discuss topics related to nature and biodiversity (for more information, see page 309). Since
2023, we have also been using the new stakeholder engagement format of the Sustainability Lab, where
around 100 external and internal experts discuss specific issues concerning sustainable development
from various perspectives (for more information, see page 166). Also in the future, we plan to conduct the
Sustainability Lab format on an event-driven basis.
»For more information about the BASF Nature Advisory Council, see basf.com/en/nature-advisory-council
»For more information on the BASF Sustainability Lab, see basf.com/en/sustainability-lab
Strategy and governance
E2-1
Explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application, accountability, impacts in the
value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof, see General
Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151 onward. These include, among other things, our
Responsible Care Management System and, as part of this, our global standards in terms of
environmental protection, process safety, product safety and transportation safety as well as emergency
and crisis management. BASF’s position on water protection, our risk-based sustainability management
for procurement and the Supplier Code of Conduct can also be found there.
Environmental protection in our production
With its “Winning Ways” strategy, BASF intends to continue to drive forward the transformation of its
production operations and its product portfolio. In order to prevent or reduce negative environmental
impacts due to regular emissions to air and water, as well as due to potential product spills and leakages
into water, a holistic approach is needed to ensure efficient and resource-saving production and
continuous monitoring to protect the environment.
We have therefore established comprehensive management and control systems for our own production.
BASF is actively involved in the International Council of Chemical Associations’ (ICCA) global
Responsible Care® initiative. Our Responsible Care Management System, based on the eponymous
initiative, not only encompasses occupational health and safety requirements and standards (see page
278 onward), but also environmental protection. We aim to further reduce emissions to air from our
production by means of process improvements and new technologies. Similarly, we strive to reduce
negative impacts on water quality as part of responsible handling of water as a resource and sustainable
water management. This is also set out in our position paper on water protection.
»For more information on our position paper on water protection, see basf.com/water
We have defined our global standards for emissions to air and water in Group-wide requirements, the
implementation and compliance of which is the responsibility of the sites and Group companies. The
requirements also cover the aspects of process and transportation safety in order to prevent production
and transportation-related product spills and leakages into air and water as effectively as possible (for
more information, see page 209 onward). For example, these stipulate that water protection concepts
must be implemented at all production sites in order to prevent unforeseen emissions and the pollution
of surface or ground water. We continuously update our requirements and guidelines, which can be
accessed via an internal BASF database. To this end, we also exchange information with authorities,
associations and international organizations. We also exchange information, experiences and practical
examples via the global BASF network of experts.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 207
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our emissions to air and wastewater are subject to stringent controls. We assess their impact carefully
and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In this context, we also evaluate whether
regulatory developments concerning emissions to air and water require investments in our infrastructure
and the further development of our systems. The chemical industry is facing substantial risks due to
changes to and reforms of regulatory requirements or approval conditions, including in relation to the
areas of environmental protection, biodiversity and ecosystems. More stringent regulations may limit the
approval, use or marketing of certain chemicals. BASF plans to respond to regulatory changes with a
combination of proactive and reactive measures. These include continuous monitoring, analysis of the
regulatory framework and steering of our product portfolio using the TripleS (Sustainable Solution
Steering) method. We also invest in research and development in order to continuously develop
chemicals with improved toxicological and ecotoxicological properties and thus meet the new
requirements. Moreover, BASF is committed to working closely with stakeholders and regulatory bodies
to ensure that company practices comply with the latest standards.
Continuous monitoring, documentation and control of emissions to air and water as well as the
implementation of measures for improvement are an integral part of our environmental management. The
Corporate Center unit Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality monitors this
regularly by means of Responsible Care audits. We pursued a risk-based approach in the 121 audits
carried out in 2024. In addition, responsible local authorities regularly inspect whether the analyses and
safety precautions at our sites comply with internal and legal requirements.
In developing our business strategies, we also consider the resilience of our business models with regard
to economic, ecological and social aspects, as well as their impacts, risks and opportunities. As part of
our opportunity and risk management system, strategic risks connected with material economic,
ecological and social matters are evaluated, among other things (for additional information, see page 87
onward). The strategies of our business units are updated on a regular basis. This is done either
individually at business unit level or as part of the overarching operating division strategy, and involves
specialists from the business unit or operating division concerned and from our central strategy unit. In
2024, we have piloted a method to address material topics in the strategies of the business units over
the next ten years. Depending on the extent of the strategy revision, resilience reviews, regulatory
aspects and stakeholder expectations can be included to estimate future market developments.
Upstream and downstream value chains can also be taken into account. In addition, we use our TripleS
method to review the resilience of our product portfolio with regard to environmental and social
aspects.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 208
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Process, product and transportation safety
In particular, the reliable and safe operation of our plants, which form the core of our business,
represents a key element of our Responsible Care Management System. We take extensive preventive
measures in order to counteract incidents at our plants – such as product spills and leakages into water –
and continuously improve our production processes. Opportunities arise in particular in the automation
and digitalization of processes.
The topic categories of product and transportation safety, emergency response and remediation, soil and
groundwater also form part of our Responsible Care Management System. With comprehensive safety
concepts and globally binding standards and requirements, we aim to prevent resulting environmental
damage to the best extent possible, such as product spills and leakages into air and water. Here, we rely
on comprehensive preventive measures and clearly defined responsibilities. We review the guidelines by
means of regular audits. We continuously further develop our production and logistics processes as well
as our approach to product stewardship.
As a chemical company, we also transport dangerous goods. We want to ensure that our products are
loaded, transported and handled in accordance with the relevant regulations and their hazard potential,
thereby minimizing the risk along the entire transportation chain. To this end, the managers responsible
and their employees are regularly trained, advised and supervised by our transportation safety experts,
and the reliability of logistics partners is regularly reviewed. All BASF products intended for transportation
must be clearly identifiable, classified, securely packaged and labeled.
Should a crisis situation, however, be caused by process safety incidents, product spillages or other
emergencies, we wish to be as well prepared as possible at global, regional and local level. We have
established structures and processes for emergency preparedness and emergency response that enable
an effective response. Our emergency and crisis management focuses on the protection of our
employees, contractors and neighbors, the safety of our plants and the protection of the environment.
Unusual incidents are recorded and reported centrally in accordance with a standardized Group-wide
procedure (e-Rapid Incident Report). The aim is to identify risks at an early stage and, if necessary,
initiate appropriate remedial and communication measures. Incidents are followed up on to identify
potential for improvement, which is integrated into existing concepts as needed.
We continually invest in reducing the impact of our actions on the environment. By means of Responsible
Care audits in the areas of “Organization and management system,” “Product stewardship,”
“Transportation safety,” “Process safety,” “Environment (air, water, waste)” and “Emergency response,”
we are able to verify compliance with our policies. We also establish appropriate provisions for
environmental protection measures, including provisions for the remediation of contamination at our sites
(for additional information, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 409).
Emissions to soil were not material in the reporting year (see page 206). Nevertheless, contamination
exists at former and active sites, and/or at sites for which we have taken on responsibility in connection
with acquisitions. It is our principle to manage these contaminated sites in close consultation with the
responsible authorities in such a way that no negative impacts arise on the environment. We develop
remediation solutions that aim to balance nature conservation and climate protection concerns, costs
and social responsibility. These site and case-specific measures take into account the legal frameworks
and currently available technology. We document contamination risks and the status of soil and
groundwater for our sites worldwide in a database. Ongoing remediation work continued on schedule in
the reporting year and planning was completed for further measures.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 209
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In order to minimize the impact of substances of concern and substances of very high concern on human
health and the environment in the downstream value chain, such substances are used in accordance
with statutory requirements, such as the EU’s REACH regulation. In addition, our TripleS method for
steering the sustainability performance of our product portfolio (see page 161) takes into account
substances of concern and of very high concern with a view to proactive portfolio and substitution
planning.
For more information on substances of concern or of very high concern, as well as their potential impact
on human health and the environment, see Substances of concern or of very high concern in this chapter
on page 218 onward.
Responsibility in our value chain
We are also committed to our responsibility for environmental protection throughout our entire value
chain in order to reduce the impacts of regular emissions to air and water and potential product spills
and leakages. Alongside production at our plants and the activities at our sites and warehouses, this also
applies to the procurement and transport of our raw materials as well as the distribution and usage of our
products.
For our upstream value chain, our procurement organization has established guidelines in a global risk-
based management system that define how we implement our due diligence processes. We have defined
corresponding standards in a global requirement. We continuously enhance this requirement and our
structures and processes in order to adapt to changing conditions. Procurement requirements and
targets are set centrally and are binding for all employees with procurement responsibility worldwide. We
endeavor to ensure compliance with these guidelines using a multistage control process. The unit-
specific risk management systems of our business units are supported and monitored during
implementation according to minimum standards set by the Corporate Center units. The Corporate Audit
unit, as the third instance involved, monitors the effectiveness of and compliance with risk management.
Our management processes are activated in the event of specific incidents (see pages 297 and 301). We
expect our suppliers to comply with internationally recognized environmental standards. Our
expectations are set out in our global Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 295), which is part of our risk-
based management system and integrated into our procurement conditions. It is based, among other
things, on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and ICCA’s Responsible
Care® program and also includes emissions to air and water.
As part of our supplier management, we review compliance with our required criteria when selecting
suppliers and assessing new and existing supplier relationships. We instruct our suppliers to reduce
regular emissions to air and water and to prevent product spills and leakages in upstream processing.
We arrange for third parties to evaluate suppliers with a high sustainability risk. Supplier assessment is
mainly performed as part of the chemical industry’s Together for Sustainability initiative (TfS), either
through on-site audits by TfS-approved auditors or through sustainability assessments based on online
assessments via the rating agency EcoVadis. Depending on business requirements, we perform our own
Responsible Care audits at selected contract manufacturers if material risks have been identified with
respect to environmental protection. This also includes emissions to air and water.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 210
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In our downstream value chain, we continuously want to collaborate with our customers on the
development of innovations and solutions that are designed to enable their green transformation and
make a significant contribution to sustainability (for more information on steering the sustainability
performance of our product portfolio using the TripleS methodology, see page 161 onward). We offer our
customers a wide range of products that enable them to reduce regular emissions to air or water, from
industrial process catalysts and fuel additives to high-performance plastics for manufacturing
ultrafiltration membranes and the precursors used to produce coagulants for water treatment.
We have also established relevant global management systems in our downstream value chain. We
address the safe handling and application of our chemical raw materials and products as part of our
product and transportation safety management, for example. BASF regards product stewardship as an
integral component of all business processes, as a key element of our risk management system and as a
vital pillar of our commitment to Responsible Care®. We aim to continuously minimize negative impacts
on humans and the environment and to improve the safety and sustainability of our products on an
ongoing basis.
Before our products are launched on the market, they undergo various tests and assessments –
depending on legal requirements and their application profile. These tests enable us to identify potential
hazard characteristics as well as health and environmental risks at an early stage. On the basis of the
results, we devise precautionary and protective measures and develop recommendations on safe
handling – from production to application through to transport and disposal – in order to prevent
potential product spills in downstream processing, for example.
By systematically implementing external and internal requirements, we also aim to ensure in the
downstream value chain that our customers receive their goods in harmless condition as well as in safe
packaging and transport containers. To this end, we rely on the qualified selection, approval and clear
labeling of packaging and transport containers as well as the accompanying transport documents and
multiple checks. We communicate product safety information via our safety data sheets. These contain,
for example, information on the physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological properties of our
products, as well as on potential hazards, first aid measures, measures to be taken in the case of
accidental release and disposal, and on safe handling. We also wish to contribute to the prevention of
leakages and emergencies and to mitigating and limiting their impacts. Should an emergency occur,
however, we provide our customers with the support of our expert network.
Actions
E2-2
Our actions for avoiding and minimizing environmental pollution often entail decentralized activities,
projects and initiatives. They have not been assigned to any centrally managed action plan. Instead, they
– like our management and monitoring systems – aim to ensure continuous optimization and further
development and fall within the responsibility of the sites and Group companies concerned. This goes
hand in hand with the BASF approach to sustainability steering (see page 152).
Actions in our own production
Our activities for avoiding and minimizing environmental impacts due to regular emissions to air and
water take effect right at the start of the product life cycle: We invest continuously in research and
development (for additional information, see page 37 onward) in order to design products in such a way
that their impacts on the environment are as minimal as possible. Drawing on TripleS – an instrument
used to steer our product portfolio based on the sustainability performance of our products – we review
our relevant global product portfolio continuously, but at least every four years (for more information, see
page 161).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 211
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Moreover, we evaluate the effectiveness of our actions as part of our Responsible Care audits in the
categories of “Organization and management system,” “Product stewardship,” “Transportation safety,”
“Process safety,” “Environment (air, water, waste)” and “Emergency response.”
Thanks to our focus on operational excellence (see also page 190), we continuously design our plants
and processes to be more efficient and resource-saving. This creates direct incentives for investing in
efficiency projects and contributes to reducing emissions. Corresponding projects address all levels of
the mitigation measure hierarchy: Prevent, reduce, recapture and reuse, restore and regenerate. We
therefore further reduce regular emissions to air through various actions, such as lowering the emission
of nitrogen oxides using catalysts and feed waste gases back into the production process.
When it comes to emissions to water, our approach is to reduce wastewater volumes and contaminant
loads at the source in our production processes and to reuse wastewater and material flows internally as
far as possible. To treat wastewater, we use both central measures in wastewater treatment plants and
the selective pretreatment of individual wastewater streams before these are sent to the wastewater
treatment plant. We use different methods depending on the type and degree of contamination –
including biological processes, chemical oxidation, membrane technologies, precipitation or adsorption.
At our Verbund site in Freeport, Texas, we commissioned a membrane bioreactor for treating wastewater
in 2023, which improved the capacity and cleaning performance of the wastewater treatment plant. In the
medium term, the treated wastewater is to be reused, thereby reducing the need for freshwater.
Depending on the local situation, we also implement actions together with other stakeholders. For
example, at the Tarragona site in Spain, we are working with our water supplier AITASA and other
companies to further expand wastewater reuse in the medium term.
As part of our water protection concepts, we regularly conduct risk assessments of our wastewater,
evaluate it in terms of its risks and derive suitable monitoring measures.
In order to take preventive action against environmental impacts due to potential product spills and
leakages, such as into water, we set demanding safety standards when planning, building and operating
our plants around the world. These meet and, in some cases, go beyond local legal requirements. Our
experts develop a safety concept for every plant that takes into account the key safety, occupational
health as well as environmental protection aspects – from plant design to the end of production – and
stipulates corresponding protective measures. In order to maintain a high level of safety at our plants
worldwide over their entire life cycles, we carry out implementation checks at regular intervals and
dependent on the risk potential to verify the implementation of our safety concepts. We regularly update
the safety and protection concepts of our plants. Here, we particularly take new findings, technological
opportunities and regulatory developments into account.
To reduce process safety incidents, we focus in particular on technical measures, digital solutions and on
a leadership culture that places even greater focus on process safety and dealing openly with mistakes.
We use the rate of High Severity Process Safety Incidents (hsPSI) per 200,000 working hours as a
reporting indicator (for information on the external validation of metrics, see General Disclosures on page
151).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 212
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
By 2030, we aim for a rate of no more than 0.10 High Severity Process Safety Incidents per 200,000
working hours.1 In 2024, we recorded a global rate of 0.03 hsPSI per 200,000 working hours (2023: 0.05).
The rate of process safety incidents (PSI rate; number of process safety incidents per 200,000 working
hours) was 0.22 in 2024 (2023: 0.29). In addition, we are continually refining our training methods and
offerings to increase risk awareness and strengthen our safety culture. In North America, a campaign was
launched in 2023 with the aim of promoting behaviors that contribute to responsible and competent
safety practices. To engage their teams in discussions on these topics, leaders have specific tools at
their disposal. One example is an instrument known as the “Safety Moment”: short, illustrative
presentations with thought-provoking ideas on safety, which can be used routinely to kick off meetings
and events. In internal and external networks, through our involvement in associations such as the ICCA,
the European Process Safety Centre (EPSC) and the Center for Chemical Process Safety (CCPS), as well
as through our dialog with authorities, we make an active and continuous contribution to improving
process safety around the world.
In the event of process safety incidents, their handling initially falls within the remit of local crisis
organizations and/or local emergency response. We have implemented precautionary organizational
measures with clearly defined responsibilities and procedures at all sites for this purpose. The employees
responsible receive regular training. This includes safety and emergency drills, which vary in scope and
the number of people involved. Depending on the situation, we also involve business partners and our
sites’ communities, such as cities or neighboring companies, both in drills and in the event of an
emergency. Additional teams may be called in for emergencies, depending on the development of the
damage extent. The Global Crisis Management Support Team (GCMS), led by a member of the Board of
Executive Directors, is activated in the event of a global crisis situation. It provides the strategic direction
for crisis management and is supported by issue-specific and specialist working groups.
We use a range of tools to minimize transport risks, such as impacts on the environment due to potential
product leakages. For every dangerous good, we verify whether the packaging has been approved for
that product and is suitable for the type of transport. We conduct digital dangerous goods checks before
shipping orders are released. Vehicles are subjected to a thorough dangerous goods check prior to
loading and rejected if there are any issues. Above and beyond this, we use our global requirements to
specifically assess the safety and environmental risks of transporting and handling raw materials and
sales products with high hazard potential. This is based on the guideline Safety Risk Assessment for
Chemical Transport Operations of the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC). We stipulate
worldwide requirements for our logistics service providers and assess them in terms of safety and
quality. Our experts use our own tools as well as internationally approved schemes for evaluation and
monitoring. These include the ship inspection reports issued by the Chemical Distribution Institute
(CDI). We remain involved in external networks, which quickly provide information and assistance in
emergencies. These include the Intervention in Chemical transport Emergencies (ICE) initiative and the
German Transport-Accident-Information and Emergency-Response-System (TUIS), in which BASF plays
a coordinating role. We apply the experience we have gathered in the course of this involvement to
improve our own processes and set up similar systems in other countries.
1 Working hours by BASF employees, temporary workers and contractors.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 213
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Actions in the value chain
We are committed to minimizing the impacts of regular emissions to air and water as well as of potential
product leakages into water throughout our entire value chain. To this end, we work together with our
suppliers and numerous partners. Ongoing initiatives serve the purpose of continuous optimization and
further development.
In the upstream value chain, we take a closer look at suppliers in critical supply chains, such as those
for mineral and renewable raw materials and a range of pigments, using a risk-based approach.
Upstream stages of the value chain are assessed in respect of serious sustainability risks, with suitable
remedial measures instigated where necessary (see pages 297 and 301). In shared initiatives with
suppliers and other partners, we also develop and test approaches to making the supply of raw materials
more sustainable. We work continuously to switch to more sustainable alternatives for raw materials and
to reduce the use of raw materials in the manufacture of our products, such as by means of more
efficient processes and innovative technologies.
This also enables us to provide our customers in the downstream value chain with more sustainable
solutions and reduce emissions.
With TripleS, we have established a steering tool for our product portfolio based on the sustainability
performance of our products (for more information, see page 161). Based on this, we review our relevant
global product portfolio continuously, but at least every four years. In 2022, we updated the TripleS
method in order to further steer our product portfolio toward climate protection, climate neutrality and
circular economy. In addition to implementing new regulatory requirements, we are actively driving
forward the adaptation and further development of our production processes with the aim of reducing
the environmental footprint of our products. Criteria for mitigating environmental impacts, such as
reducing emissions to air and water or new approaches to water purification, also form part of the
evaluation process. If products with sustainability concerns are identified, we classify them as part of
TripleS either as Monitored, or in the case of significant concerns, as Challenged. A description of
potential actions is mandatory for both categories. In the event of significant challenges, we develop
action plans to optimize the products or replace them with alternative solutions. These include research
projects and reformulations to optimize products or replace them with alternative products. To
consistently make our portfolio more sustainable, we are generally phasing out all Challenged products
within five years of their initial classification.
»For more information on TripleS, see basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering
Together with partners and in dialog with stakeholders in the food value chain, we continuously drive
projects aimed at promoting sustainable agriculture. Improper use of our crop protection and seed
products may have a negative impact on human health and the environment. We are therefore focusing
our smart stewardship activities on education and continuously improving our solutions for farmers
through the use of digital tools and innovative technologies. Alongside aspects such as efficacy and
productivity, this includes also safe use by our customers and impact on the environment. All of BASF’s
crop protection products can be used safely under local farming conditions if the information and
directions on the label are followed. If they have any questions, complaints or issues, our customers can
contact us through various channels, for example, by calling the telephone number printed on all product
labels, using the contact forms on our websites or by approaching our sales employees directly. We
record all product incidents relating to health or the environment that come to our attention in a global
database. If necessary, we take appropriate measures on the basis of this information to minimize
preventable incidents. These include updating the instructions for use on product labels. We
communicate these changes and general recommendations on the safe use of our products through
channels such as our global training and education activities.
»For more information on smart stewardship, see basf.com/smart-stewardship
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 214
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In order to protect the water as a resource, deepen our knowledge and share our expertise with others,
we cooperate with numerous partners along the value chain and from civil society. We are, for example,
a member of the Alliance for Water Stewardship, which, with its Strategy 2022–2030, calls for collective
action to tackle shared water challenges. In addition, we are continuously involved in networks such as
the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW), the World Plastics Council and Operation Clean Sweep® to
prevent waste from plastic production from entering water bodies. In South America, we support
sustainable development activities, including in the area of water, through Fundação Eco+.
Global targets
E2-3
In our global sustainability-related corporate targets (for additional information, see page 31 onward), we
see effective levers in terms of environmental protection in general. These include our climate targets to
reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, our target of closing loops, our TripleS target, our sustainable
water management target and our responsible procurement target.
We also endeavor to minimize potential incidents impacting the environment through our targets for
resource-efficient and safe production, particularly our process safety target. A process safety incident,
however, does not necessarily have a negative impact on the environment. From 2025 onward, the
environmental impacts from process safety incidents will – as is already the case for transportation
incidents with significant environmental impacts – be systematically recorded in a global database.
In 2024, we had no transportation incidents with significant impacts on the environment.
BASF does not have a specific reduction target for emissions to air (excluding GHG) and water in the
topic category Pollution Prevention. All relevant indicators are monitored and published on a regular
basis (see Metrics on page 216 onward). The ways in which we track the effectiveness of our policies is
discussed in the section Strategy and governance from page 207 onward.
We discuss the sustainability topics that are material for BASF at regular meetings with external
stakeholders, forming part of our strategic stakeholder engagement activities, and in discussions with
investors. Through this, the expectations of our stakeholders are continuously taken into account when
setting potential targets.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 215
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Metrics
Emissions to air and water
E2-4
Emissions to air and water in 2024 (excluding GHG)a
Pollutant Emissions to air in kg per year Emissions to water in kg per year
Carbon monoxide (CO) 1,841,646 –
Ammonia (NH) 1,894,780 –
3
Nonmethane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs) 2,622,097 –
Nitrogen oxides (NO/NO) 7,596,114 –
x 2
Sulfur oxides (SO/SO) 905,966 –
x 2
Total nitrogen – 1,875,809
Total phosphorus – 172,297
Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) 15,667 –
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) 181 –
Halons 198 –
Arsenic and compounds (as As) 53 483
Cadmium and compounds (as Cd) 20 45
Chromium and compounds (as Cr) 123 326
Copper and compounds (as Cu) – 2,212
Mercury and compounds (as Hg) 20 –
Nickel and compounds (as Ni) 680 1,812
Lead and compounds (as Pb) – 34
Zinc and compounds (as Zn) 835 7,322
Alachlor – –
Aldrin – –
Atrazine – –
Chlordane – –
Chlordecone – –
Chlorfenvinphos – –
Chloro-alkanes C –C – –
10 13
Chlorpyrifos – –
DDT – –
1,2-Dichloroethane (EDC) 1,867 –
Dichloromethane (DCM) 11,730 –
Dieldrin – –
Diuron – –
Endosulphan – –
Endrin – –
Halogenated organic compounds (as AOX) – 37,452
Heptachlor – –
Hexachlorobenzene (HCB) – –
Hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) – –
1,2,3,4,5,6-Hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) – –
Lindane – –
Mirex – –
PCDD + PCDF (dioxins + furans) (as TEQ) – 0.03
Pentachlorobenzene – –
Pentachlorophenol (PCP) – 1
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) – –
Simazine – –
Tetrachloroethylene (PER) – –
Tetrachloromethane (TCM) 1,025 –
Trichlorobenzene (TCB) (all isomers) 2,604 –
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 216
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Emissions to air and water in 2024 (excluding GHG)a
Pollutant Emissions to air in kg per year Emissions to water in kg per year
1,1,1-trichloroethane – –
1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane – –
Trichloroethylene – –
Trichloromethane 5,625 –
Toxaphene – –
Vinyl chloride – –
Anthracene – –
Benzene 12,729 –
Brominated diphenylether (PBDE) – –
Nonylphenol and nonylphenol ethoxylates (NP/NPEs) – 280
Ethylbenzene – –
Ethylene oxide 3,846 90
Isoproturon – –
Naphthalene 14,564 –
Organotin compounds (as total Sn) – –
Di-(2-ethyl hexyl) phthalate (DEHP) – –
Phenols (as total C) – 4,698
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) – –
Toluene – –
Tributyltin and compounds – –
Triphenyltin and compounds – –
Total organic carbon (TOC) (as total C or CSB/3) – 3,485,782
Trifluralin – –
Xylenes – –
Chlorides (as total Cl) – 243,528,382
Chlorine and inorganic compounds (as HCl) 134,044 –
Asbestos – –
Cyanides (as total CN) – 4,399
Fluorides (as total F) – 140,374
Fluorine and inorganic compounds (as HF) – –
Hydrogen cyanide (HCN) 3,163 –
Particulate matter (PM ) 584,650 –
10
Octylphenols and octylphenol ethoxylates – 89
Fluoranthene – –
Isodrin – –
Hexabromobiphenyl – –
Benzo(g,h,i)perylene – –
a A hyphen (–) indicates that the parameter and medium in question do not trigger a reporting obligation or that the emissions are not above the threshold value.
For a description of our measurement methods on determining the quantities of substances emitted in
connection with environmental pollution and a description of the data collection process for accounting
and reporting in connection with the reduction of environmental pollution, as well as general information
on the estimation or rounding of individual sustainability metrics, see General Disclosures from page 150
onward in our Sustainability Statement.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 217
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Substances of concern or of very high concern
E2-5
Substances of concern or of very high concern may represent an integral component of the chemical raw
materials used for production or of chemical products. To this extent, a portion of our products, which
are key input products in further industrial or professional value creation or application, contain
substances of concern or of very high concern. We address the safe handling and usage of chemical raw
materials as part of our product safety. BASF understands product safety to be an integral part of all
business processes, as an important element of our risk management and as an essential pillar of our
commitment to Responsible Care®.
We continuously work on ensuring our products – including those that may contain substances of
concern or very high concern – pose no risk to people and the environment when they are used
responsibly and in the manner intended. A thorough safety and risk assessment enables us to serve
markets with innovative and more sustainable products that meet regulatory requirements while still
responding to trends.
We aim to comply with all relevant national and international laws and regulations. The guidelines,
requirements, processes and responsibilities described above in this chapter under “Strategy and
governance,” also pertain to the handling of substances of concern and of very high concern.
We document and evaluate the safety, health and environmental information for our substances and
products in a global database. We update this information on an ongoing basis. The database forms the
basis for communicating this information via our safety data sheets, which we provide to our customers
in around 40 languages. These include information on physicochemical, toxicological and
ecotoxicological properties of products, potential hazards, first aid measures, measures taken in the case
of accidental release and disposal. Our global emergency hotline network enables us to provide
information around the clock. To ensure that people who buy, sell, use, transport or dispose of our
products can quickly find information about the products and their associated hazards, we use the
Globally Harmonized System (GHS) to classify and label our products around the world, provided this is
legally permissible in the country concerned. We take into account national or regional adaptations within
the GHS framework if applicable, such as the EU’s regulation on the classification, labeling and
packaging of substances and mixtures (CLP Regulation).
If necessary, we advise our customers on product safety. We set global requirements on the safe
transport of dangerous goods for our logistics providers (see page 213). We also train our employees
worldwide on the proper handling and usage of selected products with special hazard potential. In
associations and together with other manufacturers, BASF supports the establishment of voluntary
global commitments to prevent the misuse of chemicals. We are also involved at national and
international level in various initiatives to further develop risk assessments, such as that of the European
Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals (ECETOC).
With such efforts, we aim to ensure that these substances or products containing these substances with
very high hazard potential are safely handled and to ensure that impacts on human health and the
environment can be prevented.
Substances of concern and of very high concern are subject to strict regulatory supervision, and the list
of restricted substances with hazardous properties is continuously growing. When a substance is added
to a regulatory list, this can change both the future availability of raw materials and the market behavior
of customers and consumers. Normally, such changes are planned well in advance and transparently,
allowing the industry to prepare by taking suitable measures, such as substitution planning or the
implementation of derogations. Our proactive TripleS steering instrument, for example, makes a
substantial contribution to planning a sustainable portfolio. A potential material risk for value chains,
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 218
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
which would, however, not specifically affect BASF, could only arise in the event of an unforeseen
proliferation of regulatory measures.
The substances of concern or of very high concern deployed by BASF in global value chains in the 2024
business year are stated in the following tables. As an integrated chemical company, BASF manufactures
a broad portfolio of products, many of which are further processed by customers in the chemical
industry. We handle the substances in our production appropriately and supply our customers with
products that can be used safely if handled properly. As a B2B company, we market only a very small
portion of our products directly to consumers and end users. The values listed in the tables also include
multiple counts if several main hazard classes apply to a substance. The values therefore do not
correspond to the total tonnages actually introduced into the downstream value chain.
Information about substances of concern (SoC) that are classified in one of the following hazard classes
or hazard categories in Part 3 of Annex 4 of Regulation 1272/2008 (CLP Regulation)
Total volumes (aggregated) in
Main hazard classa metric tons per yearb
Carcinogenity (Carc. 1; Carc. 2) 4,178,324
Germ cell mutagenicity (Muta. 1; Muta. 2) 2,058,739
Reproductive toxicity (Repr. 1; Repr. 2) 697,124
Endocrine disruptor for human health (ED HH 1; ED HH 2)c –
Endocrine disruptor for the environment (ED ENV 1; ED ENV 2)c –
Persistent, mobile and toxic (PMT) or very persistent and very mobile (vPvM)c –
Persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) or very persistent and very bioaccumulative
(vPvB)c –
Respiratory sensitization (Resp. sens. 1) 1,995,577
Skin sensitization (Skin sens. 1) 2,809,301
(Aquatic chronic 1; Aquatic chronic 2; Aquatic chronic 3; Aquatic chronic 4) 764,913
Damages the ozone layer (Ozone 1) 612
Specific target organ toxicity, repeated exposure (STOT RE 1; STOT RE 2) 3,442,402
Specific target organ toxicity, single exposure (STOT SE 1; STOT SE 2) 643,551
a Where components in a product/material are assigned to more than one main hazard class, the volume of components will be included in each hazard class, respectively.
b Emissions (separate reporting via environmental legislation) not included
c Not yet implemented part of the EU regulation
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 219
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Information on substances of very high concern (SVHC) that correspond to the criteria pursuant to
Article 57 and that have been identified pursuant to Article 59 (1) of the REACH regulation (EC)
1907/2006
Total volume (aggregated) in
Main hazard class as per REACH Article 57a metric tons per yearb
Carcinogenity (Carc. 1A; Carc. 1B) (Article 57a) 289,788
Germ cell mutagenicity (Muta 1A; Muta 1B) (Article 57b) 224,046
Reproductive toxicity (Repr .1A; Repr. 1B) (Article 57c) 67,739
Persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) Article (57d) 807
Very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) (Article 57e) 1,593
Substances – such as those with endocrine disrupting properties or those with persistent,
bioaccumulative and toxic properties or very persistent and very bioaccumulative
properties that do not meet the criteria of items d or e – that according to scientific
knowledge probably have severe impacts on human health or on the environment, which
give rise to an equivalent level of concern to those other substances listed under a to e and
that are identified, on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the procedure set out in
Article 59 (Article 57f). 46,354
a Where components in a product/material are assigned to more than one main hazard class, as nominated in the candidate list, the volume of components in each hazard
class will be included, respectively.
b Emissions (separate reporting via environmental legislation) not included
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 220
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
E3 Water
ESRS E3
Water is of fundamental importance in chemical production along the
entire value chain. It is used as a coolant, solvent and cleaning agent, and
to make our products. Waterways are used to transport goods. At the
same time, water is a scarce commodity in an increasing number of
regions. That is why we promote the responsible use of this resource with
sustainable water management.
Our main business – the development, production and processing of chemicals – as well as the
transportation of chemicals requires the responsible use of water as a resource. Firstly, we aim to use
water as sparingly and efficiently as possible. Secondly, we want to minimize emissions of potentially
harmful substances to water in our production processes and treat wastewater adequately. We address
environmental, health and safety risks with a comprehensive Responsible Care Management System (see
page 207).
ESRS 2 IRO-1
As part of our double materiality assessment conducted in 2024 (see page 167), the topic Water was
identified as material. The assessment identified six material impacts on water as a resource and one
material risk for BASF (see the table “Results of the double materiality assessment”).
Results of the double materiality assessment for E3 Water: Impacts
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Limited availability due to water Negative Upstream value chain We impact water availability through water
abstraction and consumption abstraction and consumption in our upstream
value chain, particularly in water stress areas.
Regular emissions to water Negative Upstream value chain Emissions to water contributing to water pollution
are generated by the production and extraction of
raw materials, precursors and intermediates in our
upstream value chain.
Limited availability due to water Negative BASF’s own Water abstraction for our production impacts water
abstraction operations availability in the areas where our production sites
are located, particularly in water stress areas.
Regular emissions to water Negative BASF’s own Emissions to water contributing to water pollution,
operations such as nitrogen compounds, organic substances
and heavy metals, are generated in connection
with production in our plants.
Limited availability due to water Negative Downstream value We impact water availability through water
abstraction and consumption chain abstraction and consumption in our downstream
value chain, particularly in water stress areas.
Regular emissions to water Negative Downstream value Emissions to water contributing to water pollution
chain are generated in connection with the usage, further
processing, transportation, storage and disposal of
our products by our customers.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 221
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for E3 Water: Risks and opportunities
Risk Evaluation Description
Increased costs for water treatment due to Negative Regulatory developments concerning emissions to water may
regulatory changes require investments in our infrastructure and upgrades to our
systems.
The three identified impacts related to water quality impairment from regular emissions to water along the
value chain, as well as the identified risk from regulatory developments, are mainly covered in chapter E2
Pollution Prevention (see page 205).
The use of marine resources, such as seawater as a water source or for wastewater discharge, is not
considered material for BASF due to the small volumes involved. Our Responsible Care Management
covers these aspects despite their lower relevance. We systematically record all short and long-term
opportunities and risks that arise from water as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for
additional information, see page 87 onward).
As the basis for the double materiality assessment, all BASF sites were considered for our own
operations. We systematically record and monitor water volumes and constituents in a Group-wide
database. The impacts of water abstraction and wastewater discharge are continuously assessed and
documented as part of permitting requirements. The screening of new sites also includes environmental
impact assessments by independent third parties. As part of internal approval processes, risks
associated with environmental impacts are assessed and documented in an environmental statement.
When assessing the upstream and downstream value chain, we are aware of the risks associated with
the production and handling of chemical substances and draw on our own experience.
By engaging in open and trusting dialog, we strive for better understanding our impact on the
environment and incorporate the perspectives of surrounding communities in our decision-making and
doing. Our BASF production sites maintain close relationships with surrounding communities by
providing information and updates on current developments, offering hotlines for immediate contact and
availability as well as hosting neighborhood forums to address concerns about environmental impacts,
such as water availability and quality (see also page 308). In addition, we rely on dialog forums and
advisory bodies, such as our Nature Advisory Council, which we established together with external
specialists, where we discuss topics related to nature and biodiversity (for more information, see page
309). Since 2023, we have also been using the new stakeholder engagement format of the Sustainability
Lab, where around 100 external and internal experts discuss specific issues concerning sustainable
development from various perspectives (for more information, see page 166). Also in the future, we plan
to conduct the Sustainability Lab format on an event-driven basis.
»For more information on the BASF Nature Advisory Council, see basf.com/en/nature-advisory-council
»For more information on the BASF Sustainability Lab, see basf.com/en/sustainability-lab
Strategy and governance
E3-1
Explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application, accountability, impacts in the
value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof, see General
Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151 onward. These include, among other things, our
Responsible Care Management System and, as part of this, our global standards in terms of
environmental protection, product safety and transportation safety. BASF’s position on water protection,
our risk-based sustainability management for procurement and the Supplier Code of Conduct can also
be found there.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 222
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Water protection in our production
We aim to reduce negative impacts on water availability caused by water abstraction in our own
production. Likewise, we also strive to reduce water pollution from regular emissions to water. This
requires a holistic approach and continuous control.
That is why we have established comprehensive management and control systems for our own
production. BASF is actively involved in the International Council of Chemical Associations’ (ICCA) global
Responsible Care® initiative. Our Responsible Care Management System, based on the eponymous
initiative, not only encompasses occupational health and safety requirements and standards (see page
278 onward), but also environmental protection. The responsible use of water as a resource is a core
element of our Responsible Care Management System and an important part of our commitment to the
United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This is also reflected in our position paper on
water protection. We use Responsible Care audits, including in areas such as environment (air, water,
waste), to monitor compliance with our Responsible Care Management System.
»For more information on our position paper on water protection, see basf.com/water
A key component of our strategy for many years now has been the introduction and implementation of
sustainable water management, for which we have set a global target (see page 227). We have reviewed
our water target in 2024 and assessed it as important for implementing our strategy. This is also
consistent with recent scientific findings, such as the Planetary Boundaries reassessed in 2023
(Richardson et al. (2023); Stockholm Resilience Centre). We want to protect water as a resource,
continuously improve water use efficiency and reduce emissions. These efforts focus on our Verbund
sites and production sites in water stress areas.1 We look at water availability, water quality and the
impact of our water use on the environment and other users. For this, we use the standard of the Alliance
for Water Stewardship (AWS) as guidance. AWS is a global multistakeholder organization that promotes
the responsible use of water, which we are a member of.
Our water consumption is low compared with the total water volume sourced (see information on Water
balance on page 229) and therefore not a material topic for BASF in terms of the double materiality
assessment.
Our global standards and guidelines for water are defined in the Group-wide requirement Corporate
Requirement Environmental Protection. Among other things, these stipulate that water protection
concepts must be implemented at all production sites to prevent emissions and the pollution of surface
or groundwater. The requirements also cover the aspects of process and transportation safety in order to
prevent production and transport-related product spills and leakages into water bodies as effectively as
possible. Our sites and Group companies are responsible for implementing and complying with internal
requirements, accessible via an internal BASF database, and legal requirements. The Corporate
Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit in the Corporate Center conducts regular audits
to monitor this. During these audits, a safety and environmental profile is created, which shows if we are
addressing the existing hazard potential properly. If this is not the case, corrective measures are
determined, which are to be implemented within a specific time frame depending on the identified hazard
potential. We monitor this in follow-up audits, among other things. BASF’s global network of experts
shares information, insights and best practices on the responsible use of water on an ongoing basis. Our
requirements and guidelines are continuously updated on a regular basis. To this end, we also exchange
information with authorities, associations and international organizations.
1 We define water stress areas as regions in which more than 40% of available water is used by industry, households and agriculture. Our definition is based on the Water Risk
Atlas (Aqueduct 4.0) published by the World Resources Institute. For more information, see wri.org/aqueduct
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 223
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In developing our business strategies, we also consider the resilience of our business models with regard
to economic, ecological and social aspects as well as their impacts, risks and opportunities. As part of
our opportunity and risk management system, strategic risks connected with material economic,
ecological and social matters are evaluated, among other things (for additional information, see page 87
onward). The strategies of our business units are updated on a regular basis. This is done either
individually at business unit level or as part of the overarching divisional strategy and involves specialists
from the business unit or operating division concerned and from our central strategy unit. In 2024, we
have piloted a method to address material topics in the strategies of the business units over the next ten
years. Depending on the extent of the strategy revision, resilience reviews, regulatory aspects and
stakeholder expectations can be included to estimate future market developments. Upstream and
downstream value chains can also be considered in the analysis. In addition, we use our TripleS
methodology (Sustainable Solution Steering) to review the resilience of our product portfolio with regard
to environmental and social aspects.
In the wake of advancing climate change, the resulting water shortages and extreme weather events,
climate resilience measures are becoming increasingly important for our production (for more information
on our risk management, see page 178 onward). To ensure our supply of raw materials and
transportation via water, we rely on early warning systems and, at the Ludwigshafen site in Germany, for
example, on special vessels for low water levels on the Rhine River. Further measures at our sites are
aimed at reducing our demand for water, for example, through recycling, intelligent cooling water
systems and water treatment. Depending on the subsequent use of the water (from cooling or production
processes), varying levels of treatment may be required using sand filtration, membrane filtration or
reverse osmosis. When water is reused for cooling processes, it is often cooled through evaporation in
recooling plants before being used again.
Water protection in the value chain
We are also aware of and want to mitigate the negative impacts on water availability in our upstream and
downstream value chains caused by water abstraction and consumption, as well as the deterioration of
water quality from regular emissions to water.
Our procurement organization has established a global risk-based management system for our
upstream value chain that specifies how we implement our due diligence processes. We have defined
the standards for this in a global requirement. We continuously enhance this requirement and our
structures and processes in order to adapt to changing conditions. Procurement requirements and
targets are set centrally and are binding for all employees with procurement responsibility worldwide. We
endeavor to ensure compliance with these guidelines using a multistage control process. The unit-
specific risk management systems of our business units are supported and monitored during
implementation according to minimum standards set by the Corporate Center units. The Corporate Audit
unit, as the third instance involved, monitors the effectiveness and compliance with risk management.
Our management processes are activated in the event of specific incidents (see pages 297 and 300). Our
expectations of suppliers are set out in our global Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 295), which is
part of our risk-based management system and integrated into our procurement conditions. It is based,
among other things, on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and ICCA’s
Responsible Care® program and also includes the responsible use of water as a resource. When
selecting suppliers and assessing new and existing supplier relationships, economic criteria and
particularly ESG standards are relevant. We expect our suppliers to reduce water emissions and
minimize impacts on water scarcity. We arrange for third parties to evaluate suppliers with a high
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 224
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
sustainability risk. Supplier assessment is mainly performed as part of the chemical industry’s Together
for Sustainability initiative (TfS), either through on-site audits by TfS-approved auditors or through
sustainability assessments based on online assessments via the rating agency EcoVadis. Depending on
business requirements, we perform our own Responsible Care audits at selected contract manufacturers
if material risks have been identified with respect to environmental protection. This also includes water
use.
In our downstream value chain, we continuously collaborate with our customers on innovations and the
development of water-related solutions that are designed to enable their green transformation and make
a significant contribution to sustainability (for more information on steering the sustainability performance
of our product portfolio using the TripleS methodology, see page 161 onward). We offer our customers
solutions that help purify water and use it more efficiently and reduce pollution.
We report transparently and comprehensively on how we use water. For instance, in 2024, we again
participated in the program established by the nonprofit organization CDP for reporting on data relevant
to climate protection on the topic of water. BASF again achieved leadership status with an A- rating in
the final assessment. CDP evaluates how transparently companies report on their water management
activities and how they reduce risks such as water scarcity. The assessment also considers the extent to
which product developments can contribute to sustainable water management also at the customers of
the evaluated companies.
In addition, we have established relevant global management systems in our downstream value chain,
such as in the area of product and transportation safety. Our product stewardship experts identify
potential risks related to transportation, handling, usage and disposal of our products and provide advice
to minimize potentially negative impacts. We work continuously with all relevant stakeholders to ensure
that our products do not pose any risk to people or the environment when used as intended and
responsibly (for more information, see page 218).
Actions
E3-2
Our actions in the area of sustainable water management are often decentralized activities, projects and
initiatives. Like our management and monitoring systems, they aim to ensure continuous optimization
and further development and fall within the responsibility of the sites and Group companies. This goes
hand in hand with the BASF approach to sustainability steering (see page 152). For this reason, we have
not defined an action plan with central resource allocation for sustainable water management.
Actions in our own production
An important part of our sustainable water management is the continuous analysis and the
implementation of actions for improvement. This can include site-based projects to improve water
efficiency or wastewater quality as well as off-site measures in collaboration with third parties to improve
the water situation in the catchment area.
Thanks to our focus on operational excellence (see also page 190), we continuously design our plants
and processes to be more efficient and resource-saving. This creates direct incentives for investing in
efficiency projects and contributes to reducing emissions.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 225
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Corresponding projects address all levels of the mitigation measure hierarchy: Prevent, reduce, recapture
and reuse, restore and regenerate. The extraction, treatment, transportation and recooling of water is
often associated with a high energy demand. We are constantly working to optimize our energy
consumption and the amount of water we use, and to adapt to the needs of our operations and the
environment.
In order to use water as efficiently as possible, we rely on measures such as intelligent cooling water
systems, increased water reuse and multimodal transportation concepts with combined transportation
methods. For example, process optimizations such as the use of modified valves or the recycling of low-
temperature cooling water at the General Lagos site in Argentina have led to water savings of 22% since
2018. At our Verbund site in Freeport, Texas, we commissioned a membrane bioreactor for treating
wastewater in 2023, which improved the capacity and cleaning performance of the wastewater treatment
plant. In the medium term, the treated wastewater is to be reused, thereby reducing the need for
freshwater. Depending on the local situation, we also implement actions together with other
stakeholders. For example, at the Tarragona site in Spain, we are working with our water supplier AITASA
and other companies to further expand wastewater reuse in the medium term. Through results such as
reduced water use or the replacement of higher-quality water with alternative sources, our activities
contribute to sustainable water management. At our Guaratinguetá site in Brazil, we have collaborated
with local authorities, the Fundação Eco+ and other partners since 2011 on the Incentivo ao Produtor de
Água program: Through improved soil management and the reforestation of primary forests, surface
runoff and soil erosion in the Ribeirão Guaratinguetá catchment area have since been significantly
decreased.
Actions along the value chain
We advocate the responsible use of water as a resource along the entire value chain.
We audit supplier compliance with environmental standards in the upstream value chain worldwide as
part of our regular supplier assessments (see page 297). Where improvement is necessary, we support
suppliers in developing and implementing appropriate measures, such as the correct handling of
wastewater. We have also been involved in a wide range of initiatives to promote sustainability in the
supply chain, for example since 2016 in the Pragati project for an efficient water use concerning more
sustainable farming of castor beans in India (see page 299).
Another example is our effort with regard to lithium sourcing. Together with the BMW Group, Mercedes-
Benz AG, Fairphone B.V., Daimler Truck AG and the Volkswagen Group, we have been a member of the
Responsible Lithium Partnership since 2021. This initiative, which is scheduled to run until 2025,
campaigns for the responsible use of natural resources in the Salar de Atacama salt flat in Chile. This
region is home to the world’s largest lithium brine reserves and a significant share of global production.
With this in mind, the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ) was commissioned with
organizing a local multistakeholder platform, also comprising Indigenous communities, on the water-
related opportunities and risks of lithium and copper extraction and other commercial activities as well as
with driving forward action plans. BASF participated in a study organized by BMW together with experts
from the University of Alaska and the University of Massachusetts to examine the hydrological conditions
in Salar de Atacama. The results of this study are incorporated as an important component of the
Responsible Lithium Partnership’s work.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 226
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We also impact the availability of water resources in our downstream value chain, for example, through
our products, solutions and their application.
With TripleS, we have established a steering tool for our product portfolio based on the sustainability
performance of our products (for more information, see page 161). Based on this, we review our relevant
global product portfolio continuously, but at least every four years. In 2022, we updated this method in
order to further steer our product portfolio toward climate protection, climate neutrality and circular
economy. In addition to implementing new regulatory requirements, we are actively driving forward the
adaptation and further development of our production processes with the aim of reducing the
environmental footprint of our products. Part of the evaluation process includes criteria for water
protection, such as more efficient water use in production, new approaches to water treatment and lower
water consumption. If products with sustainability concerns are identified, we classify them as part of
TripleS either as Monitored, or in the case of significant concerns, as Challenged. A description of
potential actions is mandatory for both categories. In the event of significant challenges, we develop
action plans to optimize the products or replace them with alternative solutions. These include research
projects and reformulations to optimize products or replace them with alternative products. To make our
portfolio more sustainable, we are generally phasing out all Challenged products within five years of their
initial classification.
»For more information on TripleS, see basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering
Agriculture is one of the highest water-consuming sectors worldwide. That is why we offer our customers
targeted solutions to help use water more efficiently, such as yield-enhancing products, water-saving
cultivation methods and crops that require less water. A specific example is the artichoke variety with the
name Green Queen, which, compared with conventional varieties, delivers higher yields with the same
water usage. The implementation of new crop management for Green Queen can reduce water demand
by 20% to 35%. Green Queen is mainly sold in Spain and the United States, where the regions of Murcia
and California are increasingly affected by periods of drought. We are currently conducting a project for
Green Queen to evaluate a combined solution of AI technology and genetics.
We work with numerous partners along the value chain and from civil society to protect water as a
resource, deepen our knowledge and share it with others. We are a member of the Alliance for Water
Stewardship (AWS), whose 2022–2030 strategy aims for sustainable water use and promotes collective
action to tackle shared water challenges. In addition, we are continuously involved in networks such as
the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW), the World Plastics Council and Operation Clean Sweep® to
prevent waste from plastic production from entering water bodies. In South America, we support
sustainable development activities, including in the area of water, through Fundação Eco+.
Global target
E3-3
Our aim is to introduce sustainable water management (for more information, see E3-1 on page 222) at
our Verbund sites and at all production sites in water stress areas2 by 2030, covering around 90% of
BASF’s total water abstraction. Water stress areas are identified based on the latest water stress data in
line with the World Resources Institute’s Water Risk Atlas.2
2 We define water stress areas as regions in which more than 40% of available water is used by industry, households and agriculture. Our definition is based on the Water Risk
Atlas (Aqueduct 4.0) published by the World Resources Institute. For more information, see wri.org/aqueduct. Our water target also continues to take into account the sites
that we identified as water stress sites in accordance with Pfister et al. (2009) prior to 2019, as well as water stress sites according to Aqueduct 3.0.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 227
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In 2024, we achieved 65% of our target3 (2023: 57%).4 Sustainable water management was introduced at
eight additional sites (2023: seven sites).
The focus of sustainable water management is on efficient water use, not necessarily on reducing water
consumption, since the latter, compared with the total volume of water sourced, is not material for BASF
in terms of the double materiality assessment. Efficient water use considers, among other things, reuse
and the use of alternative or less sensitive water sources.
As part of sustainable water management, our sites regularly assess the water situation in the catchment
area, particularly when changes are made to the production infrastructure, but no later than every five
years. We look at water availability, water quality and the impact of our water abstraction on the
environment and other users. We use the AWS Standard as guidance.5 This raises awareness of potential
risks and potential impacts such as water scarcity for the population.
Our commitment to sustainable water management also extends to our value chains. We have set out
our expectations of suppliers in the global Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 295) which, among other
things, covers the areas of the Responsible Care® initiative, including the responsible use of water as a
resource. During the reporting year, we refined our target to drive forward sustainability in the supply
chain in an even more targeted manner (for additional information, see page 31). For the downstream
value chain, we have established TripleS as a tool for steering our product portfolio based on the
sustainability performance of our products (for more information, see page 161). We aim to reduce the
environmental footprint of our products, also taking into account criteria for water protection.
»For more information on TripleS, see basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering
We discuss the sustainability topics that are material for BASF at regular meetings with external
stakeholders, forming part of our strategic stakeholder engagement activities, and in discussions with
investors. Through this, the expectations of our stakeholders are continuously taken into account when
setting potential targets.
3 Our water target is not subject to any legally binding requirements.
4 By including water stress sites according to Aqueduct 4.0, the number of sites required to implement sustainable water management increases. As a result, the
implementation status for 2023 has decreased and been adjusted accordingly. The number of sites relevant to the water target is reevaluated each year, so the current year
corresponds to the reference year.
5 As described on a4ws.org, the AWS Standard aims for the following outcomes: good water governance, sustainable water balance, good water quality, important
conservation sites, and secure access to water and sanitation.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 228
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Metrics
E3-4
Water balance of the BASF Group in 2024
Million cubic meters per year
a The difference between the volume of water abstracted and the volume discharged is primarily due to the limited accuracy in measuring water discharge.
b Total from production processes, sanitation, rinsing and cleaning in production.
Our water abstraction in 2024 amounted to 1,507 million cubic meters. This demand was covered for
the most part by freshwater such as rivers and lakes. At some sites, we use alternative sources such as
treated municipal wastewater, brackish water or seawater. A small part of the water we use reaches our
sites as part of raw materials and steam, or is released in our production processes.
Water use in 2024 totaled 7,102 million cubic meters. The total volume of recycled and reused water in
2024 amounted to 5,734 million cubic meters.
We predominantly use water for cooling purposes (88% of total water abstraction), after which we
discharge it back to our supply sources with no product contact. We reduce our water abstraction for
cooling purposes mainly by using recooling plants. Around 12% of our total water abstraction is used in
our production plants, for example, for extraction and dissolution processes or for cleaning. Here, too,
we reduce our demand for water by reusing wastewater. Most of the water used for production purposes
is discharged back to water bodies after being treated in our own or third-party wastewater treatment
plants.
The BASF Group’s water consumption describes the amount of water that is not discharged back into a
water body, meaning that it is no longer available to other users. We calculate water consumption as the
sum of evaporation in cooling processes, water content in our sales products and water consumed
otherwise at our sites. Consumption is mainly attributable to the evaporation of water in recirculating
cooling systems. A smaller amount is from the water contained in our products. Water consumption in
2024 amounted to around 76 million cubic meters.
In 2024, around 30% of our production sites were located in water stress areas.6 These sites accounted
for 19 million cubic meters, representing 1% of BASF’s total water abstraction. Water consumption at
these sites amounted to 9 million cubic meters.
Production sites located in areas affected by high or extremely high overall water risk6 (23% of our sites
in 2024) accounted for 13 million cubic meters, or 1% of BASF’s total water abstraction. Their water
consumption in 2024 amounted to 6 million cubic meters.
6 Aqueduct 4.0 was used to identify sites with high or extremely high water stress and/or overall water risk.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 229
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
A general description of our measurement methods and a description of the data collection process, as
well as general information on the estimation or rounding of individual sustainability parameters, can be
found in the General Disclosures section of our Sustainability Statement on page 150 onward.
Based on net revenue (in million €) and water consumption (in cubic meters), water intensity in 2024
amounted to 1,171 cubic meters per million € net revenue.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 230
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems
ESRS E4
Biodiversity is under threat. It is the foundation for functioning
ecosystems. As a chemical company, we use valuable natural resources
such as water, air and soil. At the same time, our business activities have
an impact on these resources, for example through emissions to the
environment or the sourcing of renewable raw materials.
ESRS 2 IRO-1
As part of the double materiality assessment that we conducted for 2024 (see page 167), the topic
Biodiversity and Ecosystems was defined as material. When performing the assessment, we drew on
three sources of information, in particular:
– Assessments of various stakeholders and assessments taken from specialist literature
– Assessments by BASF experts
– Digital sources
The digital sources were evaluated using big data and AI analysis tools. We also used platforms such as
the Biodiversity Risk Filter (BRF) of the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) and the Integrated
Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources (IUCN). In 2024, we also discussed our approach to biodiversity in our Nature Advisory
Council, a body dedicated to topics related to protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. The Nature
Advisory Council supports BASF in obtaining an independent societal perspective on our activities in
relation to nature and biodiversity topics. At the end of 2024, the Nature Advisory Council comprised five
members from the field of science, relevant value chains and multilateral organizations. Affected
communities were not involved in the identification of material topics for the Biodiversity and Ecosystems
cluster.
ESRS 2 SBM-3
As a chemical company, our business activities interface with nature, and therefore with biodiversity and
ecosystems, in three key areas. These are:
– Sourcing of raw materials
– Operation of production plants
– Attributes of our products
In order to better categorize and understand the impact of BASF on nature at our production facilities, in
their immediate surroundings and throughout the value chain, we use the five drivers of biodiversity loss
as defined by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
(IPBES): Land-use change, pollution, climate change, overexploitation of resources, and invasive
species. We also followed this logic in our double materiality assessment (see page 167).
As the topic categories Climate Change and Pollution are examined at length in the chapters E1 Climate
Change (from page 178 onward) and E2 Pollution Prevention (see page 205 onward), they are not
discussed in detail in this chapter. The use of water as a resource is also explored in detail separately
(from page 221 onward). We did not examine the driver “invasive species” more closely, as we do not
consider it relevant for BASF.
Thus, this chapter focuses on the topics surrounding land use and the impacts of our business activities
on the land. No significant impacts were identified with regard to desertification and soil sealing. We also
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 231
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
consider the condition of the natural environment in proximity to our relevant sites and in relevant value
chains (see page 233).
Our double materiality assessment indicates six material impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems as well
as one associated material risk for BASF (see tables below). We systematically document opportunities
and risks as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87
onward).
Results of the double materiality assessment for E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems: Impacts
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Need for land use due to the Negative Upstream value chain By procuring renewable raw materials, we provide
cultivation of renewable raw impetus for their cultivation. This cultivation alters
materials land use and can negatively impact ecosystems.
Impact on land degradation due to Negative Upstream value chain By sourcing raw materials, we provide impetus for
the sourcing of raw materials their cultivation and extraction. In some cases, this
leads to land degradation.
Land use by BASF sites Negative BASF’s own BASF uses many plots of land for various
operations purposes, such as offices, production and
agricultural testing grounds. Soil sealing, especially
due to production plants in the chemical industry,
represents a significant land use type.
The loss of biodiversity may be Negative, Downstream value In the downstream value chain, the use of crop
facilitated by the use of crop potential chain protection products across large agricultural areas
protection products may have a negative impact on biodiversity.
The use of industrial chemicals and Negative, Downstream value The use of industrial chemicals and their
their distribution in the environment potential chain distribution in the environment may have a negative
may have a negative impact on impact on species and biodiversity.
species
More sustainable intensification of Positive Downstream value The use of our products, including crop protection
farming chain products, in agriculture enables farmers to increase
their productivity, thus supporting food production.
Results of the double materiality assessment for E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems: Risks and
opportunities
Risk Evaluation Description
Regulatory requirements for the marketing of Negative Regulatory developments, prompted by actual or anticipated
chemicals impacts of our products on the state of species, their
population sizes or their risk of extinction, impact our
opportunities to market chemicals.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 232
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Strategy and governance
E4-1
We are currently undergoing a transformation toward climate neutrality and observance of the planetary
boundaries. To this end, we have set ourselves ambitious targets (see page 31) that impact our business
models and our strategy as well as how they interface with nature, biodiversity and ecosystems.
– We strive to use more and more renewable alternatives to fossil raw materials and energy.
– We aim to continuously reduce emissions in the natural world and improve our resource use on an
ongoing basis.
– We manage our product portfolio with regard to the product-related contributions to greater
sustainability (TripleS: Sustainable Solution Steering, see page 161).
These three areas of transformation are also relevant to many of our stakeholders, such as investors,
customers, legislators, suppliers, insurers and nongovernmental organizations. We actively seek out
partnerships with relevant interest groups and organizations worldwide, for example in the Taskforce on
Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), to expand our knowledge, to raise awareness about
biodiversity and to drive necessary actions forward. In the event that our business activities negatively
impact or could negatively impact affected communities, we involve them or their representatives in one
of our stakeholder engagement formats (see page 308).
We generally consider the resilience of our business models at the level of our business units or
operating divisions along the value chain (see page 169). The current resilience of our business models in
relation to biodiversity and ecosystems was examined in 2024 in preparation for our double materiality
assessment. In our Nature Advisory Council, we discussed aspects that were part of this assessment,
such as our approach to renewable raw materials. Through the use of big data analysis, stakeholder
viewpoints were also incorporated into our considerations. The assessment was conducted under the
basic assumption of continuity concerning our current raw materials base. The examination focused on
those business models connected with the impacts identified in this topic category: The use of industrial
chemicals and the use of crop protection products. Overall, we assess our resilience level as high. As a
chemical company, we still mainly use fossil raw materials. Our sourcing of renewable raw materials is
diversified, leading to low dependence on biodiversity and ecosystem services. We regard the availability
of water in sufficient quality and quantity as an important, but not material, dependency on ecosystem
services. This dependency is documented as part of our opportunities and risk management and is
addressed by means of our sustainable water management (see page 225). We therefore regard our
physical risks as low.
We actively pursue actions (see page 248) to reduce our dependency on fossil-based technologies and
raw materials. This increases our dependency and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems. The
associated transitory and systemic risks have been considered and assessed as not material.
In respect of our business model in the field of agriculture, the long-term market demand for crop
protection products and support in food production results in a high level of resilience. The transitory and
systemic risks associated with this line of business have been considered and assessed as important but
not material.
With a view to avoiding impacts on nature, we are guided by the risk mitigation hierarchy. If impacts
cannot be minimized, we aim to reduce them, support the restoration of nature or contribute to the
transformation of value chains toward better environmental outcomes.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 233
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Explanation of material impacts
Impact of land use on the sourcing of raw materials
Human use of land has impacts on biodiversity and the conservation of ecosystems. We pursue our
ambitious climate targets (see page 194) and seek to increasingly offer customers products that make a
positive contribution to sustainability in the value chain (see page 161). This includes partially replacing
fossil raw materials with renewable alternatives. This has a positive impact on the carbon footprint of the
product concerned. At the same time, however, the cultivation of renewable raw materials must be
considered from a sustainability point of view. If plants are grown in monocultures or if forests are
cleared to enable cultivation, this has a negative impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. This may lead
to land degradation. Therefore, our risk assessments when sourcing renewable raw materials take into
account the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems, as well as social factors such as working
conditions (see page 298) and food security. We carefully weigh advantages and disadvantages, for
example with life cycle analyses. Moreover, we seek dialog with our stakeholders to identify conflicting
goals. We also take into consideration recognized certification standards in our decisions, such as the
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). For our biomass balance portfolio (see page 250), we only
source renewable raw materials that are certified in accordance with recognized standards, such as the
International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) or the REDcert scheme for sustainable
biomass.
Since 2023, our Care Chemicals division has been publishing a comprehensive Responsible Sourcing
Report, which has replaced the previously published Palm Progress Report. This report provides an
annual summary of our activities and progress in the pursuit of greater sustainability and transparency in
the palm value chain and in the value chains of other renewable raw materials.
Through the sourcing of raw materials that have been mined or otherwise extracted, we exert a
significant influence on the degradation of land and on the condition of ecosystems. Mining can result in
soil erosion, a loss of biodiversity and the pollution of water sources. The BASF procurement requirement
ensures that environmental and social criteria are taken into account during procurement. We expect our
raw material suppliers to meet environmental and social requirements (see page 239). By fostering the
circular economy, we are able to reduce demand for newly mined raw materials. BASF is involved in
various projects to improve sustainability in the supply chain, such as in connection with the recycling of
lithium-ion batteries. The company’s Verbund concept enables the efficient use of raw materials by using
a plant’s by-products as feedstocks in other processes, thereby saving raw materials and energy.
Land use by BASF sites
The operation of our sites represents land use. Our sites comprise production plants, research and office
buildings and agricultural testing grounds, among other things. We utilize a total surface area of
approximately 43,000 hectares, of which around 23%1 is sealed.
In order to assess the impact of our sites on biodiversity and ecosystems more closely, we have focused
on our production sites, as pure office locations are less relevant by comparison. Only about a quarter of
our around 1,000 sites worldwide are production plants.
1 We regard land belonging to agricultural businesses and mining locations as unpaved, whereas all other areas are classed as paved. Even if the land is classed as paved,
there are unpaved areas around buildings.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 234
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Using the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter (BRF2), an internationally recognized and science-based platform,
we analyzed our production sites on the basis of 33 indicators included in the filter to identify impacts
and dependencies in the area of physical risks and in respect of reputationally harmful topics. Our
further considerations centered on the potential physical impacts. The BRF analysis indicated that
BASF’s greatest dependency lies in the topic category Water, both in terms of the availability and the
quality of water for our production sites. For one group of sites, a potential impact was identified due to
tropical cyclones. Ranked third was the risk of extreme heat. BASF already addresses these three
dependencies as part of its site management.
The BRF analysis pointed to pollution as the greatest potential impact of BASF caused by our sites.
However, this figure was considerably lower than the BRF estimate for the chemical sector overall. We
discuss the proximity of our sites to protected areas further on page 245.
For of the management of our production facilities and their plants, we aim to act as a good neighbor
and are striving to conserving biodiversity and ecosystems and to minimizing negative impacts on the
environment. We generally keep our product-related emissions to air, water and soil as low as possible at
these sites, avoid and reduce waste and manage remediation sites responsibly.
For more information on how we prevent pollution, see page 205 onward; for more information on how
we handle water, see page 221 onward.
Identification and selection of material sites
ESRS 2 SBM-3
The material BASF sites for biodiversity and ecosystems were identified based on the results of the
double materiality assessment and using the methodological framework for the drivers of biodiversity
loss3 (see page 231), as adapted for BASF, as well as the insights gained from the BRF analysis on
impacts and dependencies.
To determine our material sites, we began by defining sites with active production operations as relevant
for the topic category and then evaluated these sites using a set of indicators. As land use has been
defined as a material impact, one indicator was the size of a site compared with all other sites.
We assigned further indicators to the sites using our environmental database if they allowed statements
to be made on the drivers of biodiversity loss that are relevant to BASF. These were emissions making a
contribution to eutrophication4 and acidification (pollution), greenhouse gas emissions (contribution to
climate change) and water supply (potential overuse of natural resources). The sites with the highest
entry values for each indicator were then further considered. The most important dependency for our
material sites is the quality and quantity of water available. Here too, the sites were compared with each
other and those with the highest values determined. Finally, the sites exhibiting at least four markers
(>50% of indicators considered) were identified.
This method enables us to identify the material sites with a high degree of alignment with the drivers of
biodiversity loss. The limitation of this method lies in the fact that, by definition, it only uses comparisons
between our sites and thus relative contributions. We will continuously review whether threshold values
for indicators can be applied in the future that go beyond BASF.
2 The BRF is a free, science-based online tool that helps companies and financial institutions around the world to recognize and evaluate risks in the area of biodiversity by
processing relevant biodiversity data and associating this data with companies’ own sites and supply chains; in doing so, it uses 33 indicators in the categories of
ecosystems, biodiversity and ecosystem services. The BRF provides indicators and geolocation-specific risk assessments for site determination purposes.
3 This methodological framework was developed and documented by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES). The
IPBES is a multilateral agency of the United Nations (U.N.) and collects global scientific data, analyzes this data and indicates political courses of action.
4 The buildup of nutrients in originally low-nutrient bodies of water, for example due to fertilizer contamination with adverse consequences for the ecosystem.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 235
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The following table shows a list of material sites based on this analysis:
Material BASF sitesa for biodiversity and ecosystems
Relative contribution to drivers of biodiversity loss (compared with all sites)
Emissions I Emissions II Emissions III
Land eutrophication eutrophication acidification Climate Water
Site use of air of water of air change use
Antwerp, Belgium, BASF
x x x x x x
Antwerpen N.V.
Chalampé, France,
x x x x
Butachimie SNC
Freeport, Texas, BASF
x x x x x
Corporation
Geismar, Louisiana, BASF
x x x x x x
Corporation
Ludwigshafen, Germany,
x x x x x x
BASF SE
Port Arthur, Texas, BASF
TotalEnergies x x x x
Petrochemicals LLC
Yeosu (formerly
Yeocheon, Yosu), South
x x x x
Korea, BASF Company
Ltd.
a All sites under BASF operational control were considered.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 236
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The following table shows how these sites are embedded within local ecosystems.
Material BASF sitesa and their ecological context
Embedding in ecological neighborhood
Documented
negative
Biodiversity In proximity to effects on
Biological mean species biodiversity biodiversity
intactness abundance sensitive sensitive
Site Biome Ecoregion indicator (BII) (MSA) areas (BSA) areas (BSA)
Antwerp, Belgium, BASF Temporary
Antwerpen N.V. deciduous and European
mixed Atlantic mixed
woodland woodland 28% 26% Yes No
Chalampé, France, Temporary Western
Butachimie SNC deciduous and European
mixed deciduous
woodland woodland 36% 26% Yes No
Freeport, Texas, BASF Tropical and
Corporation subtropical No proximity to
grasslands, Western Gulf biodiversity
savanna and Coast sensitive areas
shrubland grasslands 21% 6% No (BSA)
Geismar, Louisiana, BASF Temperate No proximity to
Corporation grasslands, biodiversity
savanna and Southeast U.S. sensitive areas
shrubland pine savannas 35% 26% No (BSA)
Ludwigshafen, Germany, Temporary Western No proximity to
BASF SE deciduous and European biodiversity
mixed deciduous sensitive areas
woodland woodland 28% 26% No (BSA)
Port Arthur, Texas, BASF Tropical and
TotalEnergies subtropical No proximity to
Petrochemicals LLC grasslands, Western Gulf biodiversity
savanna and Coast sensitive areas
shrubland grasslands 22% 26% No (BSA)
Yeosu (formerly Yeocheon, No proximity to
Yosu), South Korea, BASF Outside the Outside the biodiversity
Company Ltd. ecoregion data ecoregion data sensitive areas
set set 29% 26% No (BSA)
a All sites under BASF operational control were considered.
Crop protection products and their impact on biodiversity and land
The agricultural sector, especially the intensive cultivation of large areas of land, including the use of crop
protection products, competes with the conservation of natural habitats with a high level of biodiversity.
Farms play an important role in this regard: They not only need to focus on their productivity and yields,
but also meet societal and consumer expectations and protect the environment. Additional measures to
promote biodiversity in the agricultural sector can have positive effects and help to reduce negative
impacts. BASF has been active in this area for many years and founded the BASF Farm Network, which
brings together farmers, environmental organizations, universities and companies. Its mission is to
demonstrate the coexistence of farming and nature by means of practical experiments. The network
supports programs that reconcile agricultural production with the protection of soil and the environment.
It helps farmers to increase biodiversity on their fields and to use water and soil sustainably.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 237
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Improper use of crop protection products may have a negative impact on human health and the
environment. We are therefore focusing our smart stewardship activities on education and continuously
improving our solutions for farmers. Alongside aspects such as efficacy and productivity, this includes
safe use by our customers and impact on the environment. We consider the entire life cycle of our
products – from research and development to their proper use and disposal.
Crop protection products and seeds are highly regulated at national and international level, which leads
to strict requirements for registering and re-registering active ingredients and crop systems. Regulatory
approval is only granted after comprehensive evaluation has shown that our products are safe for
humans, animals and the environment when used according to label instructions.
Industrial chemicals and their impact on biodiversity
Emissions of industrial chemicals can have direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems.
Direct impacts occur where chemicals directly affect organisms or habitats. Indirect impacts may occur
when chemicals enter the environment and build up within the food chain and/or environment or
adversely affect habitats. These impacts differ depending on which chemical has entered the
environment and in what concentration, and over what period. It is important to consider the potential
impacts and to take suitable measures to minimize the environmental impacts.
We work continuously to reduce the environmental impacts of our products and processes. At the same
time, we continue to steer our product portfolio toward sustainability in accordance with our TripleS
methodology (Sustainable Solution Steering, see page 161). As part of TripleS, we also evaluate all
relevant BASF products in terms of their impacts on biodiversity. We identify products that pose
challenges in the area of sustainability; where these challenges are substantial, we develop action plans
in order to optimize products or replace them with alternative solutions.
We see product safety as an integral part of all business processes, as an important element of our risk
management and as an essential pillar of our commitment to Responsible Care®. We continuously work
on ensuring that our products pose no risk to people or the environment when they are used responsibly
and in the manner intended. A thorough safety and risk assessment enables us to serve markets with
safe and more sustainable products that meet regulatory requirements while still responding to trends.
More sustainable intensification of farming as a positive impact
The more sustainable intensification of farming through the use of modern crop protection products
offers various benefits. It increases the productivity of farms by maximizing their yield per hectare and
minimizing losses due to pests and diseases. It also helps to safeguard food supply by facilitating higher
and more stable yields. The more efficient use of resources such as water and fertilizer improves the
sustainability of agricultural production, which helps to protect the environment in the long term.
BASF’s specific areas of action include the development of seeds and traits that are more resilient to
climate change and enable higher yields, as well as biological and chemical crop protection solutions
and digital technologies that help farmers to manage their fields more efficiently.
BASF’s Agricultural Solutions division has set itself ambitious sustainability targets, including a reduction
in CO emissions per metric ton of crop yield and an expansion of digital technologies to more than
2
400 million hectares of agricultural land. These measures are part of a broader strategy that aims to
increase agricultural productivity and sustainability while simultaneously conserving natural resources.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 238
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Description of material risks
Regulatory requirements for chemicals
The chemical industry is facing substantial risks due to changes to and reforms of regulatory
requirements or approval conditions, including in relation to the areas of environmental protection,
biodiversity and ecosystems. More stringent regulations may limit the approval, use or marketing of
certain chemicals. BASF plans to respond to regulatory changes with a combination of proactive and
reactive measures. These include continuous monitoring, analysis of the regulatory framework and
steering of our product portfolio using the TripleS method. We also invest in research and development
in order to continuously develop chemicals with improved toxicological and ecotoxicological properties
and thus meet the new requirements. Moreover, BASF is committed to working closely with stakeholders
and regulatory bodies to ensure that company practices comply with the latest standards.
Governance approach
E4-2
Our governance in relation to the topic category Biodiversity and Ecosystems is based on three
internationally recognized reference points:
– The five drivers of biodiversity loss as defined by IPBES (see page 231)
– The Kunming Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF) and its target of reducing biodiversity
loss and reversing the trend by 2030
– The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including Zero hunger (SDG 2) and Life
on land (SDG 15)
Governance in respect of the drivers Climate Change, Pollution and Water is described in the respective
standards and therefore not elaborated upon here (Climate Change, see page 182 onward; Pollution
Prevention, see page 207 onward; and Water, see page 222 onward).
We have implemented a variety of governance approaches with a view to minimizing our impacts on
biodiversity in the area of land use. For explanations of the policies to which we make repeated
reference, see the General Disclosures chapter of our Sustainability Statement on page 151. This chapter
includes explanations regarding application, accountability, impacts in the value chain, global
applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof. Examples include our position on the
responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials, the BASF position on forest protection and our global
environmental protection standards. The Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality
unit in the Corporate Center conducts regular audits to monitor compliance with internal environmental
protection requirements. We will continuously further develop our governance, including with regard to
protecting biodiversity in the areas around our sites. As the double materiality assessment did not
identify any material dependencies, opportunities or physical/transitory risks in this topic category, our
policies do not refer to it.
Sourcing of renewable raw materials
We have laid down our expectations of our suppliers with regard to environmental, labor and social
standards in the supply chain as well as our commitment to preserving biodiversity in the Supplier Code
of Conduct. We expanded our procurement requirement in 2024: With our principles for the
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 239
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials, we are, among other things, committed to stopping
or reversing biodiversity loss within our sphere of influence. The new principles are firmly embedded in
our strategic and procurement processes, the aim being to put the BASF raw materials portfolio on a
sustainable footing. We endeavor to ensure compliance with these guidelines using a multistage control
process. (see page 295).
Palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives are some of our most important renewable raw materials.
We mainly use these to produce ingredients for the cosmetics, detergent, cleaner and food industries.
There is a risk that forest areas are cleared to create farmland for the production of palm and palm kernel
oil. For this reason, we use the internet platform palmoil.io, provided by the technology company
MapHubs, to regularly monitor deforestation activities and other possible breaches of regulations at our
suppliers’ sites. Based on our Supplier Code of Conduct, we have defined our expectations of suppliers
in the palm-based value chain in a supplementary global procurement policy (BASF Palm Sourcing
Policy). These address, among other things, certification standards, traceability, environmental aspects
connected with the observance of workers’ rights and the rights of Indigenous peoples, as well as the
inclusion of smallholder structures. Third-party certification in accordance with standards such as those
of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) enables us to take biodiversity-related criteria into
account when sourcing raw materials. The monitoring of deforestation activities and the achievement of
our targets when sourcing certified raw materials help us to monitor compliance with the policy.
When using biological resources, we adhere to the provisions of the international Nagoya Protocol. This
supplementary agreement to the U.N.’s Convention on Biological Diversity regulates access to genetic
resources and benefit sharing. It sets out obligations (for example, compensation payments) for the users
of genetic resources such as plant-based raw materials. We use internal control mechanisms such as
Responsible Care audits to monitor compliance with these standards.
Our global position on forest protection sets out our commitment to preserving biodiversity in areas of
High Conservation Value such as High Carbon Stock forest areas and peatlands in the procurement of
renewable raw materials. We have also set out our expectations on this topic in the global Supplier Code
of Conduct (see page 295), which is part of our purchasing conditions. The unit-specific risk
management systems of our business units are supported and monitored during implementation
according to minimum standards set by the Corporate Center units. The Corporate Audit unit, as the
third instance involved, monitors the effectiveness and compliance with risk management. Moreover,
forest protection in accordance with this position is addressed when making investment decisions. We
will adapt this position in 2025, incorporating the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR). In 2024, BASF
once again participated in the “Forests” evaluation, provided by nonprofit organization CDP and
achieved a grade of A-, thereby once again attaining leadership status. The assessment is conducted
based on detailed insights into the palm value chain and activities that impact ecosystems and natural
habitats.
BASF sites and production plants
We are deeply committed to environmental protection and sustainability at our sites. The aim is to
minimize the impact of production on people and the environment and to continuously improve. We do
not have dedicated policies for the protection of biodiversity in proximity to our sites, but instead use our
comprehensive Responsible Care Management System. Alongside global requirements and health and
safety standards (for more information, see pages 207 and 278), this also covers environmental
protection. We have defined our global standards for emissions to air and water in Group-wide
requirements, the implementation and compliance of which is the responsibility of the sites and Group
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 240
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
companies. Among other things, these stipulate that water protection concepts must be implemented at
all production sites in order to prevent unforeseen emissions and the pollution of surface or ground
water. The Corporate Center unit Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality conducts regular
audits to monitor compliance with internal requirements that are part of the Responsible Care
Management System.
BASF sets stringent standards for the exploration and development of new sites and, among other
things, incorporates requirements for environmentally friendly development and the inclusion and
protection of nature and ecosystems in accordance with our Responsible Care Management System.
Impacts in the downstream value chain
Through our commitment to the objectives set forth by the Responsible Care® initiative of the
International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) and our own global environmental protection
standards, we undertake to continuously minimize negative impacts of our products on health, safety
and the environment and to optimize our products on an ongoing basis. For more information, see the
chapters E2 Pollution Prevention (see page 205) and E3 Water (see page 221).
Before our products are launched on the market, they undergo various tests and assessments –
depending on legal requirements and their application profile. These tests enable us to identify potential
hazard characteristics as well as health and environmental risks at an early stage. Based on these
results, we derive precautionary and protective measures and develop recommendations for safe
handling (see page 214).
In the area of crop protection, we further follow international standards, such as the International Code of
Conduct on Pesticide Management and the Principles of Integrated Pest Management. We evaluate our
products and solutions in crop protection and seeds throughout the entire research, development and
registration process for potential risks and impacts to the ecosystems in which they are used.
Actions
E4-3
We take actions in a variety of areas to ease the pressure on biodiversity and ecosystems or to impact
them positively. We consider these to be key measures:
– The steering of our product portfolio toward more sustainability through TripleS
– Our measures concerning the sourcing of certified palm-based raw materials
Further measures outlined in the following chapter often represent locally organized activities, projects
and initiatives. They have not been assigned to any centrally managed action plan.
Measures in the topic categories Climate Change and Pollution are described in the chapters E1 Climate
Change (see page 189 onward) and E2 Pollution Prevention (see page 211 onward). Our actions
concerning the protection of water as a resource are also discussed separately (see page 225 onward).
Sourcing of renewable raw materials
We are involved in a various initiatives in our upstream value chain to manage the sourcing of renewable
raw materials in a way that protects local biodiversity. Take palm-based raw materials, for example: For
the first time in 2023, our Care Chemicals division published a comprehensive Responsible Sourcing
Report, which replaces the previously published Palm Progress Report. The third edition of this report
will be published at the beginning of 2025. Here, we report annually on our measures and progress
toward more sustainability and transparency in the palm value chain as well as further renewable raw
materials value chains. We have been a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) for
20 years now and contribute to further national and international initiatives, such as the German Forum
for Sustainable Palm Oil (FONAP) and the organization High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 241
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We source most of our palm-based raw materials from Malaysia and Indonesia. As a study conducted for
the European Commission shows, smallholders account for around one-third of the total volumes
produced there. Through our involvement in local initiatives, we aim to expand our supplier base for
RSPO-certified palm products while simultaneously bolstering smallholder structures and sustainable
production methods that help to protect local biodiversity. Since 2023, we have been working in
partnership with a leading natural cosmetics manufacturer and the Indonesian nonprofit organization
Kaleka to support smallholders in Central Kalimantan. The aim is to promote regenerative agricultural
methods as well as to help establish favorable political framework conditions and regulations. We are
also involved in a local project in Sumatra through the Forum for Sustainable Palm Oil.
Building on our involvement in these two initiatives, we joined forces with the nongovernmental
organization Solidaridad in 2023 to promote sustainable palm oil and improve the living conditions of
smallholders in Indonesia and Malaysia. In 2024, the program focused on developing viable and resilient
production systems and on supporting integrative market access systems. Farmers are assisted in
preparing for compliance with international standards and the certification of agricultural methods. The
project seeks to train farmers in both countries with a view to fostering their continued involvement in the
sector. In 2024, we entered into a further strategic partnership with the nonprofit organization Solidaridad
and the organization Fedepalma, which represents the interests of many palm oil farmers and mills. The
main objective of the project is to promote more sustainable palm oil production in Colombia in the long
term by implementing improved and more sustainable growing practices among local producers.
We have developed a grievance mechanism for our palm value chain that reflects our commitment to the
No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation (NDPE) policy and that encompasses both direct partners
and third-party suppliers. In the event of violations, we take action up to and including contract
termination. In our decisions, we also take into account results from the grievance mechanism of the
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO).
We are also driving the market transformation toward certified, sustainably sourced oleochemicals for
another renewable raw material: coconut oil. We use coconut oil to manufacture ingredients for products
such as detergents, cleaning agents and cosmetics. We have, for example, certified our production sites
in Cassina Rizzardi, Italy, and Zona Franca, Spain, under the Rainforest Alliance Mass Balance Coconut
scheme. As a result, BASF offers certified sustainable ingredients for personal care products on the basis
of coconut oil.
»For more information on our voluntary palm commitment and our palm grievance mechanism, see basf.com/en/palm-dialog
BASF sites and production plants
We continuously optimize the production processes at our sites. This includes initiatives to improve
energy efficiency (see page 190), reduce emissions to air and water and avoid waste (see pages 211, 225
and 251). We primarily rely on proactive measures and methods to protect biodiversity and only to a
lesser degree on compensation measures. These are sometimes necessary, such as on account of
conditions imposed by financial institutions and official bodies.
When it comes to investment decisions on the construction of new sites or the expansion of existing
ones, the potential impacts on forests and other biodiversity criteria are systematically considered. In this
regard, a decision may also be taken to institute compensatory measures, such as investments in local
afforestation programs.
Continuous monitoring and documentation of emissions to air and water as well as the implementation of
measures for improvement are an integral part of our environmental management. This is regularly
audited by the Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit in the Corporate Center.
Our measures connected with reducing pollution are discussed on page 211 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 242
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Impacts in our downstream value chain
In our new corporate strategy, we focus on enabling our customers’ efforts toward a green
transformation with suitable BASF products. Today, we already use alternative raw materials and
biomass in selected value chains in order to add sustainability attributes to our products. To increase
transparency surrounding our product-specific greenhouse gas emissions and to implement our carbon
reduction measures where they add the greatest value, we use a digital solution to calculate the carbon
footprint of approx. 40,000 products on an ongoing basis (see page 194).
By virtue of our TripleS sustainability evaluation method (see page 161), we continuously steer the BASF
product portfolio toward more climate protection, resource efficiency and circularity. Using this method,
we systematically evaluate products in terms of their sustainability performance. Here, the aspect of
biodiversity is also taken into account. As part of the TripleS evaluation, we identify products with high
sustainability potential and products that do not fulfill the sustainability criteria. The latter products are
systematically phased out of the portfolio or replaced by more environmentally friendly alternatives.
Through our TripleS target, we annually review the effectiveness of these measures in the area of
biodiversity and ecosystems.
Our Agricultural Solutions division offers farmers various solutions to promote biodiversity in agriculture
while simultaneously enabling productive and efficient food production. These include, for example,
various e-learning modules on biodiversity and agriculture. The interactive training sessions are available
to interested farmers free of charge. We measure participation in our training and development programs
annually. In the 2024 business year, we reached 199,427 people with the programs.
Global targets
E4-4
Many of our sustainability-related corporate targets (for additional information, see page 31 onward)
contribute to the protection of nature. These include our climate protection targets to reduce our
greenhouse gas emissions (see page 194), our targets in the area of resource use and circular economy
(see page 252) and our sustainable water management targets (see page 227).
BASF has not set an explicit target for the topic category of Biodiversity and Ecosystems. We are
reviewing whether we can derive a separate target for the topic category of Biodiversity and Ecosystems,
either from various approaches or as an overarching ambition.
At regular meetings with external stakeholder representatives as part of our strategic stakeholder
engagement, as well as in conversations with investors, we discuss the sustainability topics of material
importance to BASF. Through this, the expectations of our stakeholders are continuously taken into
account when setting potential targets.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 243
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In relation to our impact in connection with the sourcing of renewable raw materials, we set ourselves the
target in 2015 of purchasing 100% certified palm oil and palm kernel oil starting 2020. We regard this
target as a key indicator of whether our measures in the upstream value chain are successful. In recent
years, we have met this target. Due to insufficient availability of RSPO-certified palm kernel oil, we were
unfortunately unable to meet this target in 2024, posting a figure of 98.1% (2023: 100%). In 2024, we
were able to trace approx. 97% of our total volume of our global palm footprint5 back to the oil mill (2023:
96%).
In view of volatile market dynamics, we are adjusting our palm-specific targets. We will continue to
source 100% certified sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil to the extent that this is commercially
available and possible. We are adjusting our aim of sourcing derivatives of palm oil and palm kernel oil as
100% certified products from 2025 (2024: 10.2%). Due to the lack of availability on the market, we are
now aiming to achieve this target by 2030. RSPO certification will remain a preferred standard. If we
consider alternative standards or systems, they must demonstrate an equally stringent focus on
environmental protection, labor standards and human rights. In addition, we will strictly adhere to our
responsible sourcing principles. Achieving our targets remains dependent on the availability of raw
materials and economic feasibility.
As part of our “Winning Ways” strategy, we have set ourselves a new target in the area of circular
economy. We strive to almost double the sales revenue generated by so-called Loop Solutions to
€10 billion by 2030, compared with the base year of 2023. We define Loop Solutions as products that
make a positive contribution to the circular economy in line with the TripleS methodology. These are
products that are based wholly or partially on renewable or recycled feedstocks, that support the
recycling process, or that increase durability of materials or prolong their functional life (see page 252).
As such, we aim to contribute to the more efficient use of resources and counteract climate change. This
can also ease the pressure on ecosystems, as the use of recycled raw materials reduces demand for
newly extracted raw materials. If fewer fossil raw materials are extracted or renewable raw materials
harvested, this reduces the negative impacts on humans and the environment.
As part of our Responsible Care Management System, for example, we review the effectiveness of our
measures in terms of combating these impacts. We analyze our impacts in the downstream value chain
by means of the TripleS method. We have set ourselves the target of considerably increasing sales that
we generate through products that make a positive contribution to sustainability. We group these
products together as Sustainable-Future Solutions. By 2030, more than 50% of BASF’s sales relevant to
TripleS are to be attributable to Sustainable-Future Solutions. We are making good progress toward
achieving this target (see page 161). Sustainable-Future Solutions also include products whose attributes
have a positive impact on biodiversity and ecosystems, such as through the use of renewable or
recycled raw materials. One example of this is surfactants made from certified, sustainable palm (kernel)
oil, which are used in detergents, cleaning agents and dishwashing detergents.
We do not rely on compensation measures to reach the aforementioned targets. With our selected
measures and targets, we focus on avoiding or reducing negative impacts pursuant to the mitigation
hierarchy. In terms of the impacts of our sites or our production activities, we have not set ourselves any
dedicated targets on biodiversity and ecosystems.
5 The global palm footprint comprises our sourcing of palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm-based primary derivatives.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 244
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Metrics
ESRS 2 SBM-3 ESRS 2 IRO-1 E4-5
All BASF production sites in proximity to nature reserves must document potential direct negative
impacts on biodiversity-sensitive areas. No such impact was reported by any site for 2024.
Since 2013, we have been analyzing production sites in terms of their proximity to nature reserves,
including with the help of the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT). The sites have documented
their results in our environmental database since 2021. In 2024, our assessment was expanded and now
includes nature reserves pursuant to the classification of the International Union for Conservation of
Nature (IUCN) I, II and III as well as Ramsar, UNESCO Natural World Heritage Sites, Natura 2000 and Key
Biodiversity Areas (KBAs).
The sites document whether there are biodiversity-sensitive areas in their vicinity and whether they have
had a negative impact on them. If such an instance occurs, we identify the cause of the negative impact.
This could, for example, be a product leak, a habitat destruction due to construction work or the feeding
in of untreated wastewater. Once we have concluded our investigation, we review the measures planned
or already implemented in order to reduce or mitigate any impacts on nature.
In 2024, nearly 15% of our production sites6 bordered a nature reserve or biodiversity-sensitive area; of
which no sites reported negative impacts on nature reserves.
Using the STAR (Species, Threat, Abatement and Restoration) tool, we also calculated the STAR values
for our production sites based on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. This analysis covered the
sites themselves and a radius of ten kilometers. The results indicate that some of our production sites are
located in areas with high or very high STAR values. These values indicate, for instance, that these areas
are home to a large number of threatened species. We took a closer look at the drivers of biodiversity
loss at these sites. Drivers included tourism, fishing, invasive species and the occurrence of diseases
unrelated to chemical production.
»For more information on our commitment to biodiversity, see basf.com/biodiversity
»For more information on our position on forest protection, see basf.com/forestprotection
6 For this analysis, production sites at which more than one BASF company operates were only counted once in order to avoid duplicate counting. “Neighboring” is deemed to
mean within a radius of three kilometers.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 245
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy
ESRS E5
As the world’s population grows, so does demand for limited natural
resources. At the same time, many valuable materials end up in landfill or
in waste incineration. Using resources responsibly and closing loops are
material for our business and achieving our sustainability targets.
In our double materiality assessment, the topic Resource Use and Circular Economy was classified as
material. For information on how the assessment was performed – including the tools used to do this –
see the chapter General Disclosures, page 167 onward. We have identified five material impacts for
BASF as a result of the assessment (see table below). The procurement and use of fossil raw materials
negatively impact the environment through emissions, land use and environmental pollution. Waste
arising at the end of the functional life of materials that are manufactured using our products may
negatively impact the environment on disposal. At the same time, however, this waste also offers a
potential opportunity for recycling raw materials and for closing material loops. We systematically record
opportunities and risks as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional
information, see page 87 onward).
ESRS 2 IRO-1
To discuss critical issues and, if needed, develop solutions together, we seek dialog with our
stakeholders. We are also involved in numerous sustainability initiatives to drive forward sustainability
both in general and specifically in relation to our value chain. We are involved in networks, lobbying
groups and associations in order to jointly promote sustainability topics.
We cooperate with partners along the value chain, for example in the chemical industry’s Together for
Sustainability initiative, and are involved in numerous networks such as the Ellen MacArthur Foundation
(EMF), the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), the Global Battery Alliance
(GBA) and the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW). In doing so, we want to better understand
requirements, trends and growth opportunities, and contribute to the development of standards.
We use a Group-wide program to assess and develop new projects designed to promote the circular
economy. We also address impacts, risks and opportunities by regularly assessing external, independent
reports such as the Circularity Gap Report, which is published annually by the Circle Economy
Foundation initiative. We have worked together with the WBCSD and other chemical companies to
develop a Chemical Transformation Roadmap, which was published on the WBCSD website on
October 1, 2024.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 246
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Sourcing and use of fossil or Negative Upstream value chain We negatively impact overshooting of the planetary
renewable raw materials boundaries by sourcing and using fossil and
renewable raw materials, for example through
emissions, land use and environmental pollution.
Waste management in the Negative Upstream value chain We negatively impact the planetary boundaries
upstream value chain through the waste arising in our upstream value
chain as a result of sourcing, refining and
processing.
Use of fossil or renewable raw Negative BASF’s own We negatively impact overshooting of the planetary
materials operations, upstream boundaries by using, processing and combusting
and downstream value fossil or renewable raw materials, for example
chain through emissions, land use and environmental
pollution.
Waste management in BASF’s own Negative BASF’s own We negatively impact the planetary boundaries
production operations through the waste arising in our own production.
Waste management in the Negative Downstream value We negatively impact the planetary boundaries
downstream value chain chain through the waste arising at our customers.
Strategy and governance
E5-1
We are pursuing a holistic strategy to establish a circular economy and, at the same time, to reduce our
company’s environmental footprint. We want to offer our customers innovative products and solutions to
enable their green transformation. Our business units are therefore in close contact with our customers in
order to better understand their sustainability needs and offer tailored BASF solutions. The insights from
this dialog are also incorporated in our research projects and in innovation processes.
Our strategy covers the entire value chain – from responsible sourcing and the efficient use of raw
materials in our own processes and using by-products to developing resource-saving solutions for our
customers. For explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application,
accountability, impacts in the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and
engagement thereof, see General Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151.
Sourcing of raw materials
Alongside economic, environmental and social criteria, we also consider aspects such as product safety
and supply security when selecting suppliers and raw materials. Our procurement organization has set
out guidelines for our upstream value chain in a global, risk-based management system. We have
defined the standards for this in a global procurement requirement. The BASF Group uses this
requirement to ensure that procurement processes are in line with our standards and with the legal
guidelines. The requirement includes a supplier risk assessment, which also examines their sustainability
performance. The aim here, among other things, is to combat the negative impacts on the environment
of the procurement of both fossil and renewable raw materials. We endeavor to ensure compliance with
this guideline using a multistage control process. The unit-specific risk management systems of our
business units are supported and monitored during implementation according to minimum standards set
by the Corporate Center units. The Corporate Audit unit, as the third instance involved, monitors the
effectiveness and compliance with risk management. We require suppliers to comply with internationally
recognized environmental standards. Our expectations are laid down in our Supplier Code of Conduct
(see page 295), which is integrated into our purchasing conditions. This Code of Conduct, which also
aims to address the negative impacts caused by our sourcing of fossil and renewable raw materials,
covers protecting human rights, compliance with valid environmental regulations and the efficient use of
resources, among other things.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 247
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The global procurement requirement is supplemented by specific internal guidelines, for example, on
sourcing palm-based raw materials or certain mineral raw materials. The requirements regulate the
sourcing of raw materials in general. They do not address a reduction in the use of fossil raw materials.
As part of our new corporate strategy, the BASF Renewable Carbon unit within Global Procurement is
continuing to drive the sourcing of renewable raw materials and biomass for BASF’s operating divisions.
Use of fossil raw materials
We are focusing on actions and on our circularity target to increasingly replace fossil raw materials with
recycled or renewable raw materials. For many years, we have already been pursuing BASF’s Verbund
concept1 to ensure the efficient use of raw materials. Intelligently linking and steering our plants and
processes as set out in this concept creates efficient value chains. By-products from one plant are used
as feedstocks elsewhere. This saves raw materials and energy. At the same time, the Verbund offers
many opportunities to use renewable and recycled raw materials. Going forward, we want to better
leverage this potential.
Waste management in the value chain
We rely on our sourcing requirements and our Supplier Code of Conduct to address waste management
in our upstream value chain. The responsible management of resources and waste in our own production
as well as of the negative impacts resulting from this are core elements of our Responsible Care
Management System. We want to use this system to fulfill our corporate purpose of creating chemistry
for a sustainable future. Specifically, we intend to use it continuously to improve our processes in the
areas of safety, environmental protection and resource use. Our global standards and guidelines relating
to waste are defined in the Group-wide Environmental Protection corporate requirement. This includes
compliance with the waste management hierarchy: prevention, reuse, recycling, energy recovery,
incineration, disposal. The sites and Group companies are responsible for implementing this requirement.
The Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit in the Corporate Center conducts
regular audits to monitor compliance with legal guidelines and internal requirements. BASF’s global
network of experts shares information, experiences and best practices on an ongoing basis. Continuous
monitoring, documentation and control of waste streams and contaminated sites as well as the
implementation of improvement measures are an integral part of our environmental management.
Actions
E5-2
As part of our activities to achieve more sustainability, we are relying on recycled and renewable raw
materials to replace fossil raw materials and reduce emissions along the value chain. We continuously
evaluate whether fossil and petrochemical resources can be replaced with renewable or recycled
alternatives. We are aiming to transition to a circular economy by focusing on using increased amounts
of circular raw materials (both recycled and renewable), designing new material cycles and establishing
new business models.
We rely primarily on the following actions for this:
– Responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials
– Use of the mass balance approach
– Partnerships to drive forward chemical recycling
– Use of TripleS to steer our product portfolio toward more sustainability
1 The Verbund concept is not a BASF policy and therefore also not a policy as defined by the ESRSs.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 248
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Successfully transforming to a circular economy depends on a suitable framework. At present, global
demand for circular products is growing more slowly than expected. In addition, there is currently not
enough suitable waste available on the market, while technologies to enhance large-scale recycling of
raw materials are being further developed. We are also observing uncertainties in the regulatory
environment that are making the transformation more difficult.
As part of a Group-wide circular economy program, BASF teams have developed new approaches in
over 50 initiatives since 2019. These relate to the main action areas of making greater use of circular
feedstocks, designing innovative material cycles and establishing new business models. From 2025
onward, the respective business units will drive forward implementation of these initiatives in the long
term.
E5-5
We help to close and expand loops by developing and implementing circular solutions for the materials
that we source, continuing to optimize our operations and offering resource-efficient products and
services that support our customers’ circular processes. We are also developing product-specific
recycling technologies and are involved in cross-industry networks and initiatives to avoid plastic waste
and strengthen the circular economy.
Sourcing and use of raw materials
E5-2
Fossil raw materials are still our most important feedstocks. Extracting and processing them causes
greenhouse gas emissions, which contribute to climate change. We are trying to reduce these emissions
by using alternative raw materials. However, these alternatives can also pose sustainability challenges,
such as risks in the supply chain. We see one solution in a transition to a circular economy in which we
use process and product innovations to decouple growth from resource consumption.
In line with our procurement requirements, our responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials takes
the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems into account. The risk analyses that we perform in relation
to our procurement processes also consider social factors such as working conditions and food security
over the long term. We carefully weigh advantages and disadvantages, for example with life cycle
analyses. At the same time, we seek dialog with our stakeholders to identify conflicting goals. The aim
here, among other things, is to combat the negative impacts on the environment caused by the sourcing
of both fossil and renewable raw materials. We also continuously include recognized certification
standards, such as those from the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), in our decisions. For our
biomass portfolio, we are exclusively sourcing renewable raw materials that are certified according to
recognized standards such as the International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) or REDcert,
the organization for sustainably produced biomass (see page 254).
We are constantly working to switch to more sustainable raw materials and to reduce the resources
consumed in the manufacturing of our products, for example through more efficient processes and
innovative technologies. We are developing and testing long-term approaches to make the sourcing of
raw materials more sustainable in joint local initiatives with suppliers and other partners. For example, we
started operating a prototype metal refinery at our site in Schwarzheide, Germany, in April 2024. The
plant will be used in the future to recycle lithium-ion batteries and waste from the production of electric
vehicle batteries.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 249
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In addition, for example, we continue to deploy the mass balance approach in our production in the
long term: Many BASF value chains start in syngas plants or steam crackers. This is where fossil
feedstocks, mostly naphtha and natural gas, are converted into hydrogen and carbon monoxide or split
into important basic chemicals such as ethylene and propylene. These are then processed further in the
BASF Verbund to create thousands of products. In addition to fossil feedstocks, we feed alternative
feedstocks from bio-based and chemically recycled sources, such as bionaphtha, biomethane and
pyrolysis oil, into the Verbund long term at our production sites in Europe, North America and Asia
Pacific. These alternatives are used in place of fossil feedstocks for our mass balance products. As fossil,
bio-based and recycled raw materials are processed simultaneously, the feedstocks cannot be directly
physically attributed to resulting derivatives. However, through monitoring by independent third parties
such as TÜV Nord on the basis of recognized certification systems such as REDcert2 or ISCC PLUS, it
can be verified that an adequate amount of alternative feedstocks has been used for the amount of mass
balance sales product. This ensures that fossil raw materials are saved with every sale of these certified
products. We aim to use the mass balance approach to help our customers to achieve their sustainability
targets. This can help BASF to purchase fewer fossil raw materials and reach its sustainability targets.
»For more information on the mass balance approach, see basf.com/massbalance
Mass balance products are identical in quality to conventionally produced products, but due to the
alternative feedstocks used they contribute to more sustainability, for example, through fewer CO
2
emissions and lower demand for fossil raw materials. In 2024, we expanded our mass balance portfolio
in many areas, for example to include Ccycled® automotive refinish coatings, biomass balanced products
for customers from the detergent and cleaner industry, and products for selected chemical
intermediates.
One focal point of our activities in the area of circular feedstocks is the chemical recycling of plastics.
We use this complementary technology to mechanical recycling to help reduce the amount of plastic
waste that is disposed of in landfills or thermally recovered in the long term. Chemical recycling breaks
down plastics into their building blocks or converts them into basic chemicals. Different methods are
used for this, such as depolymerization or pyrolysis. Chemical recycling has impacts on the entire value
chain – from the sourcing of raw materials and the use of recycled raw materials in the manufacture of
products to the downstream value chain, in which waste is not disposed of but can be used as a
feedstock. To give one example, in chemical recycling, our technology partners use the pyrolysis process
to extract pyrolysis oil from used tires or from mixed plastic waste, which is not mechanically recycled as
of yet. As part of ChemCycling®, we feed the pyrolysis oil into the BASF Verbund at our production sites
in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific as a substitute for fossil feedstocks and manufacture
Ccycled® products by applying the mass balance approach. In 2024, we established a long-term
partnership with Encina Development Group to source benzene that has been chemically recycled from
plastic waste. We also aim to use this feedstock to manufacture our Ccycled® product portfolio.
Our Agricultural Solutions division’s xarvio® HEALTHY FIELDS digital solution is a good example of a
business model that contributes to a circular economy by reducing resource consumption. The solution
creates incentives for our customers to use resources as efficiently as possible when growing winter
wheat and barley. It offers a customized, field-specific fungicide strategy that guarantees leaf health at
the end of the season. If the guaranteed leaf health level is not reached, BASF pays compensation to its
customers. In 2024, agricultural machinery manufacturer Stara started marketing a crop protection
sprayer in Latin America that can detect and treat weeds in real time. The technology combines xarvio®
Digital Farming Solutions’ agronomic intelligence with high-tech cameras and software to optimize the
use of herbicides.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 250
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
E5-5
We are also pursuing the goal of closing product loops. One example of this is loopamid®. BASF
developed this innovative solution to support the circular economy in the fashion industry and recycle
polyamide 6 (PA6) textile waste. The technology behind loopamid® tolerates all fabric blends, including
PA6 and elastane, enabling textile-to-textile-recycling of industrial textile waste and used clothing from
the downstream value chain. The fibers and materials can be recycled over multiple cycles. At the same
time, the material’s characteristics are identical to those of conventional polyamide.
E5-2
A significant tool for the long-term global steering of the product portfolio based on the sustainability
performance of our products is our TripleS method (Sustainable Solution Steering). We use this method
to assess our relevant product portfolio2 and categorize products by their applications and regional
aspects, including with respect to resource use and the circular economy. This steering method also
allows us to enhance our portfolio with respect to the aspects of the circular economy and resource use.
By doing so, we aim to contribute positively to reducing the sourcing of fossil raw materials by
supporting the use of recycled feedstocks and closed-loop product cycles. The latter could further
reduce waste along the entire value chain. If products with sustainability concerns are identified within
TripleS, we classify them as either Monitored or, in the case of significant concerns, as Challenged. A
description of possible measures is mandatory for both categories. In the case of Challenged products,
we develop our own action plans. These include research projects and reformulations to optimize
products or replace them with alternatives. To systematically make our portfolio more sustainable, we are
generally phasing out all Challenged products within five years of their initial classification. For more
information on the TripleS method, see the General Disclosures chapter of the Sustainability Statement
from page 161 onward.
Waste management
We are committed to minimizing material consumption along our value chain. We require suppliers to
comply with internationally recognized environmental standards. We support our suppliers in developing
and implementing measures for improvement, for example in waste management.
Through targeted waste management, which is set out in the Environmental Protection corporate
requirement, we aim to reuse materials by recycling them, for example, and to keep waste disposal
volumes as low as possible. In this continuous process, we systematically track our material flows and
follow a clear hierarchy: We aim to avoid waste as far as possible, for example, by continuously
optimizing our processes or developing new production methods. This is where our Verbund structure
with its networked plants and value chains comes in: The by-products of one plant serve as feedstock
elsewhere in the BASF Verbund, avoiding waste and enabling us to use the feedstocks deployed as
efficiently as possible. If they cannot be used within the Verbund structures, we assess whether they can
be recycled or thermally recovered. We have established processes for the safe, proper and
environmentally responsible disposal of materials that we cannot recover or where recovery is not legally
permitted. If we use external waste disposal companies, we conduct regular audits to verify that waste is
disposed of properly. In this way, we also contribute to preventive soil protection and keep today’s waste
from becoming tomorrow’s contamination.
2 The definition of the relevant portfolio and further information can be found in the TripleS manual at basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 251
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Global targets
E5-3
We use our TripleS method to categorize our relevant product portfolio3 into five segments: Pioneer,
Contributor, Standard, Monitored and Challenged. Taken together, the Pioneer and Contributor products
make up our Sustainable-Future Solutions. Products allocated to these categories make a positive
sustainability contribution in the value chain. Examples are bodycare products made from bio-based and
biodegradable polymers or insulation foams that save energy for customers. Our Sustainable-Future
Solutions allow us to make a positive contribution with our product portfolio. This also includes resource
use and circular economy. For example, an increasing amount of recycled feedstocks are used in these
products. We have set ourselves the goal of ensuring that more than 50% of BASF’s sales relevant to
TripleS are attributable to Sustainable-Future Solutions by 2030 (2024: 46.3%). With TripleS, we are
steering our product portfolio as well as our research and development units toward sustainable
solutions. We are aiming to reduce the negative impacts of the sourcing and use of fossil raw materials,
for example, by using more recycled feedstocks and deploying circular solutions to make more efficient
use of raw materials. This can also reduce the waste produced along the value chain. For more
information on the methodology behind this target, see the General Disclosures chapter of our
Sustainability Statement from page 161 onward.
In addition to this target, with which we aim to increase the proportion of our more sustainable products,
we have set ourselves a new target for the circular economy in 2024. The target was set by BASF’s
Board of Executive Directors in 2024 on the basis of the TripleS method. This methodology and the
associated target are based on clearly defined criteria in the respective ESG topic areas that are
comprehensible in the methodology manual. There is currently no general quantitative scientific
framework for the steering of a product portfolio based on business performance and sustainability
contribution that companies could use as a guide when setting targets. Among other things, regional
legislation on the circular economy and the guidelines set out therein, which we expect that our
customers will have to meet, were taken into account when setting the target. We aim to generate sales
of €10 billion from Loop Solutions for our customers by 2030 (2024: €5.7 billion). We define Loop
Solutions as products that are categorized as Pioneers or Contributors in line with TripleS and that hence
make a positive contribution to the circular economy. The total sum of absolute sales for these products
represent our Loop Solutions. These are products that are based wholly or partly on renewable or
recycled feedstocks, support recycling processes, increase durability of materials or prolong their
lifetime. For example, multilayer packaging produced with our water-based Epotal® adhesives can be
easily separated into its individual recyclable materials during recycling, allowing them to be reused. Our
aim with this target is to reduce waste along the value chain and to make a positive contribution to the
more efficient use of raw materials. The annual review of our TripleS target also includes a review of
those products that contribute to the circular economy target, so as to measure and evaluate our
progress toward achieving it.
In this way, BASF is pursuing a holistic strategy to support a circular economy and at the same time
achieve our sustainability targets. To meet these two product-specific targets, we will enhance the
sustainability of our raw material base in the direction of a more circular economy. We have drawn up
both policies and actions to do this. We aim to use our targets to check whether our strategies and
actions are having the desired effect and whether we are contributing to the circular economy.
There are no plans to introduce a dedicated waste management target. Our focus is on the efficient use
of our raw materials in our plants. We are continuously increasing this efficiency thanks to the focused
measures we are taking (see page 251) and hence are also reducing the volumes of waste generated
during production.
3 The definition of the relevant portfolio and further information can be found in the TripleS manual at basf.com/en/sustainable-solution-steering.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 252
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Metrics
Resource inflows
E5-4
BASF’s most important raw materials (based on volume) include gas and crude oil-based petrochemical
feedstocks such as naphtha and benzene. We use liquid gas and natural gas as fuels to generate energy
and steam, and as raw materials to produce key basic chemicals such as ammonia or acetylene.
Naphtha is mainly fed into our steam crackers, where it is split into products such as olefins and
aromatics. Olefins such as ethylene, propylene and butene are important feedstocks for numerous value
chains at BASF. We use aromatics such as benzene or toluene to manufacture engineering plastics,
among other products. Further details about water as a resource are given in chapter E3 Water (on page
221 onward). Investments in property, plant and equipment such as the construction of new production
plants or the expansion of capacities at existing production plants are of crucial importance to us as a
chemical company. Information on these investments is given in the chapter Material Investments and
Portfolio Measures of the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 33). Thanks to a high degree of
forward and backward integration, we can produce feedstocks for our value chains efficiently within the
BASF Verbund while conserving resources. We continuously evaluate whether fossil and petrochemical
resources can be replaced with renewable or recycled alternatives.
Our renewable raw materials are mainly based on vegetable oils, fats, grains, sugar and ethanol. We use
these to produce ingredients for the detergent and cleaner industry and natural active ingredients for the
cosmetics industry, for example. We also use renewable feedstocks such as biomethane and bionaphtha
as an alternative to fossil feedstocks in our Verbund (see page 250).
We document the volumes of raw materials that we source by determining and adding together their
weights. Solids are weighted directly, while for liquids and gases, the volumes are measured and the
weights then calculated using their density. We comply with our global, binding procurement
requirements when sourcing raw materials and expect our suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of
Conduct.
When using fossil and renewable raw materials, we consider economic criteria, supply security, process
and product safety issues, the availability of various raw materials and potential impacts on
sustainability along the value chain. All in all, we purchased 30.4 million metric tons of raw materials in
2024, which we generally also use in the same year. Renewable raw materials accounted for 1.2 million
metric tons of this amount and were mainly based on vegetable oils, fats, grains and sugar.
We purchase renewable raw materials in accordance with our principles for sustainable sourcing. Our
expectations of our suppliers are laid down in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We are developing and
testing approaches to make the supply of raw materials more sustainable in joint initiatives with suppliers
and other partners. Our principles for the responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials cover both
environmental and social criteria.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 253
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
A total of 24% of the renewable raw materials purchased by us in 2024 were certified, for example by
RSPO, REDcert-EU, ISCC EU or ISCC PLUS. Certification standards are not available for all renewable
raw materials. As part of our commitment to more sustainability, we are focusing on those areas where
they are still missing.
Palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives are some of our most important renewable raw materials.
We mainly use these to produce ingredients for the cosmetics, detergent, cleaner and food industries.
We aim to ensure that palm-based raw materials come from certified sustainable sources. We have been
a member of the RSPO since 2004 and are involved in other national and international initiatives, such as
the German Forum for Sustainable Palm Oil (FONAP) and the High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA)
organization. Building on our Group-wide Supplier Code of Conduct, we have outlined our expectations
of suppliers in the palm-based value chain in an additional sourcing policy (BASF Palm Sourcing Policy).
This addresses aspects such as forest and peat conservation, respect for labor rights and the rights of
Indigenous peoples, smallholder inclusion, and certification and traceability standards. Our goal here is
to address negative impacts that could arise as a result of our sourcing of renewable raw materials
specifically for palm-based raw materials. As part of our supplier and risk management, we use the
Palmoil.io internet platform from the tech firm MapHubs to monitor potential deforestation activities that
violate our Palm Sourcing Policy. Our Care Chemicals division has published a comprehensive annual
Responsible Sourcing Report since 2023. In it, we report on our measures and progress toward more
sustainability and transparency in the palm value chain and the value chains for other renewable raw
materials.
We sourced 11.3 kilotons of recycled raw materials in 2024. This corresponds to 0.04% of our raw
materials. The figure includes pyrolysis oil, which is extracted from plastic waste or used tires via
chemical recycling (see page 250).
We have many years of experience and a high degree of specialization in recycling precious metals
such as platinum, palladium and rhodium. These are used in mobile emissions catalysts as well as in
chemical catalysts. We primarily use the precious metals recovered in this way as feedstocks to
manufacture new products for the automotive, specialty chemical, semiconductor and green hydrogen
industries.
Another focus is on recycling mineral raw materials. For example, we are driving forward innovative
technologies and solutions for recovering metals such as lithium, nickel, cobalt and manganese from
end-of-life lithium-ion batteries. With the growing market for electric vehicles, there is also an increasing
need for recycling lithium-ion batteries. As a leading producer of battery materials with local production
capacities in the three main markets – Asia, Europe and North America – BASF has in-depth expertise in
battery chemistry and process technology. We are utilizing these competencies to address battery
recycling as an additional growth market in cooperation with partners along the value chain.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 254
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Resource outflows
E5-5
The production and processing of chemicals is our core business. Our extensive product portfolio ranges
from chemicals and materials to industrial solutions, surface technologies, nutrition and care and
agricultural solutions. We supply products and services to around 74,000 customers4 from various
sectors in almost every country in the world. Our customer portfolio largely comprises major global
customers and medium-sized enterprises, which process them in downstream production. Only isolated
products, such as in the agricultural area, are also sold directly to end consumers. Because of this, we
assume that our products do not have a significantly high material use rate or recyclable content.
Our products are frequently used to manufacture durable, high-performance solutions such as electric
motors for vehicles or insulation foams for the construction industry. We are making increasing use of
alternative feedstocks and processes in the manufacture of our products, so as to close material loops
and reduce waste (see page 248). These include, in particular, our Ccycled® products; we use the mass
balance approach to attribute pyrolysis oil – which is fed into the BASF Verbund as a substitute for fossil
feedstocks – to them. We are helping to strengthen the circular economy and increase resource use by
offering our customers products that support the recycling process, increase the durability of materials or
prolong their lifetime. We have embedded the TripleS method in the assessment of our research and
development (R&D) processes so as to incorporate the guidelines formulated by the European
Commission in its Safe and Sustainable by Design framework, among other things. Our use of TripleS
creates transparency regarding the contribution to sustainability made by our product portfolio and future
products developed by R&D and also takes circular design principles into account. We are reviewing the
sustainability-related challenges facing our products and steering our portfolio in the direction of more
sustainable solutions. As part of our circular economy program, we also investigate the recyclability of
our own products, among other things. One example of this is loopamid®, a product enabling textile-to-
textile recycling of industrial textile waste and used clothing (see page 251).
One of the ways in which we can reduce the use of fossil raw materials is to partially or fully use
renewable or recycled feedstocks to manufacture products. This is done by feeding in recycled or bio-
based feedstocks into the production of certain BASF products and attributing them to the end products.
We use the mass balance approach for this. As fossil, bio-based and recycled raw materials are
processed simultaneously, the feedstocks cannot be directly physically attributed to resulting derivatives.
This attribution is monitored by independent third parties such as TÜV Nord on the basis of recognized
certification systems including REDcert2 or ISCC PLUS. These enable BASF to verify that an adequate
amount of alternative feedstocks have been used for the amount of mass balance sales product. This
ensures that fossil raw materials are saved with every sale of these certified products.
»For more information, see basf.com/massbalance
BASF generated 2.18 million metric tons of waste in 2024. As is normally the case in the chemical
industry, this includes metals, plastic waste as well as reaction and distillation residues, among other
things. A total of 1.09 million metric tons of this waste was disposed of. Based on the concept of the
circular economy, we are continuously examining recycling or thermal recovery options for all waste. In
this way, we were able to find new uses for 1.09 million metric tons of our waste in 2024. A total of
1.70 million metric tons (77.8%) of our waste could not be recycled. We continuously identify and
evaluate the safest and most environmentally sound disposal routes for nonrecyclable waste. The
4 The number of customers refers to all external companies (sold-to parties) that had contracts with the BASF Group in the business year during which sales were generated.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 255
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
hazardous waste disposed of in landfill is mainly contaminated construction waste that cannot be
recycled due to legal guidelines. BASF classifies waste before its disposal in line with the applicable
legislation and the volume is determined by weighing it at the disposal company. The data produced by
weighing serves as the basis for the treatment or disposal costs that are due. A general description of
our measurement methods and of the process used to capture environmental data, including waste
volumes, plus general information on estimating or rounding specific sustainability parameters can be
found in the General Disclosures chapter of our Sustainability Statement on page 150 onward.
Waste generation in the BASF Group in 2024
In millions of metric tons Hazardous waste Nonhazardous waste
2024 2024
Recovery
Recycled 0.16 0.32
Thermally recovered 0.47 0.14
Waste recovered 0.63 0.46
Disposal
Through incineration (without energy recovery) 0.63 0.05
In surface landfills 0.09 0.18
Other 0.11 0.04
Waste disposed of 0.83 0.26
Total waste generation 1.46 0.73
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 256
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
EU Taxonomy
The European Union (EU) strives to be climate neutral by 2050 as part of the Green Deal. The EU
taxonomy serves as an instrument for that purpose. It provides a common classification system for
economic activities based on their substantial contribution to environmental objectives.
In accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the supplementary delegated acts, the
Nonfinancial Statement includes the share of the Group’s taxonomy-eligible and
taxonomy-aligned sales revenue, capital expenditures (capex) and operating expenditures (opex) for the
reporting year 2024. Under consideration is whether our economic activities substantially contribute to
one or more of the following six environmental objectives: climate change mitigation, climate change
adaptation, the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a circular
economy, pollution prevention and control, and protection and restoration of biodiversity and
ecosystems.
BASF activities that are not yet covered by the EU taxonomy, and as such, are not relevant under the
taxonomy, are reported as taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with the delegated acts. These include
large parts of BASF’s activities that may nevertheless be in line with the EU’s environmental objectives as
they substantially contribute to avoiding CO emissions within BASF and for BASF products. We use our
2
TripleS methodology to systematically analyze the environmental performance of all BASF products (see
page 161).
To derive the aforementioned financial indicators, we analyzed our product portfolio and identified the
following economic activities under the EU taxonomy’s six environmental objectives as being relevant for
BASF:
– Manufacture of batteries1
– Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings1
– Manufacture of hydrogen
– Manufacture of soda ash
– Manufacture of chlorine
– Manufacture of organic basic chemicals
– Manufacture of anhydrous ammonia
– Manufacture of nitric acid
– Manufacture of plastics in primary form
– High-efficiency cogeneration of heat/cool and power from fossil gaseous fuels
– Manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active substances
To avoid double counting, the assignment to an enabling activity is only made if a taxonomy-eligible
product or project had not already been included under another activity. BASF products also enable the
manufacture of renewable energy technologies as well as low-emission mobility. However, since the EU
taxonomy focuses on the manufacture of technologies and thus excludes precursors, we have classified
these activities as non-eligible under the EU taxonomy.
We identified additional BASF activities outside of our main business – the production of chemical
products – and assessed their materiality in terms of their contribution to sales revenue, capital or
operating expenditures. For the 2024 reporting year, we also assessed the economic activity high-
efficiency cogeneration of heat/cool and power from fossil gaseous fuels as relevant with respect to the
environmental objective of climate change mitigation. For the purposes of the templates set out in Annex
XII to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178, we would like to point out that we conduct
activities in the areas of electricity generation. In this context, our activities in the areas of high-efficiency
1 Enabling activities as defined in the EU Taxonomy Regulation.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 257
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
cogeneration of heat/cool and power from fossil gaseous fuels, reached the materiality threshold for the
first time in the 2024 business year in terms of their contribution to capital expenditures. The following
economic activities have been deemed immaterial: electricity generation using solar photovoltaic
technology; production of heat/cool from bioenergy; production of heat/cool from geothermal energy;
electricity generation from fossil gaseous fuels; and high-efficiency cogeneration of heat/cool and power
from fossil gaseous fuels. BASF does not conduct any nuclear energy activities.
BASF does not report any taxonomy-eligible activities under the environmental objective of climate
change adaptation. This is firstly to avoid double counting with economic activities already included
under the environmental objective of climate change mitigation. Secondly, in accordance with the notice
issued by the European Commission, a prerequisite for taxonomy eligibility under the adaptation
objective is the submission of an investment plan for implementing adaptation solutions. BASF does not
currently have any such plan within the meaning of the EU Taxonomy Regulation.
Taxonomy-eligible sales revenue, capital and operating expenditures for all six
environmental objectives
We assessed the taxonomy eligibility of our sales revenue based on sales revenue as defined and
reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the BASF Group (see page 358). When taking all six
environmental objectives into account, our taxonomy-eligible sales revenue accounted for 11.7% of total
sales revenue in 2024. The largest contributions were from the activities manufacture of plastics in
primary form and manufacture of organic basic chemicals, both of which are assigned to the
environmental objective of climate change mitigation. Taxonomy-eligible capital expenditures (including
acquisitions and excluding goodwill in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation) accounted for
21.4% of the total capital expenditures reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital
expenditures on the manufacture of organic basic chemicals and in the manufacture of plastics in
primary form made the greatest contribution. These two activities likewise support the environmental
objective of climate change mitigation. Operating expenditures include non-capitalized costs that relate
to research and development2, maintenance and repair, and short-term lease expenses. We follow the
definition of operating expenditures set forth in the EU Taxonomy Regulation, which varies from how we
report opex in our Consolidated Financial Statements. All of the capital and operating expenditures of a
production facility with a taxonomy-eligible activity are counted as taxonomy-eligible. Taxonomy-eligible
operating expenditures accounted for 11.7% of total operating expenditures. The largest contributions
were from the activities manufacture of organic basic chemicals and manufacture of plastics in primary
form. Both activities fall under the objective of climate change mitigation.
Taxonomy-aligned sales revenue, capital and operating expenditures
The taxonomy-eligible activities identified by BASF can be classified as taxonomy-aligned if they make a
substantial contribution to one of the six environmental objectives and do no significant harm to other
environmental objectives and, at the same time, ensure minimum social safeguards. As in the prior year,
the material contribution and the harm to other environmental objectives were reviewed in a three-step
process. The first step involved a two-part analysis based on BASF’s internal product databases:
– The manufacture of products was analyzed with respect to the use of critical substances listed in
Appendix C3 to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2485 to ensure that they do not result in
significant harm to the EU taxonomy’s objective of pollution prevention and control. This also included
use in the production process. Experts assessed and documented in each case that no other suitable
alternative substances or technologies were available on the market.
2 Taxonomy-eligible expenses for research and development are derived using the criteria applicable to the economic activity of close-to-market research, development and
innovation (for example, having a Technology Readiness Level of at least 6).
3 Generic criteria for DNSH to pollution prevention and control regarding use and presence of chemicals.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 258
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– Plastics in primary form were analyzed with respect to the share of renewable raw materials in the
product. They were only considered further if the share was at least 5% and thus potentially made a
substantial contribution to climate change mitigation through partial or complete production from
renewable raw materials. Shares allocated using mass balance approaches (see page 250) are not
taken into account here because their acceptance under the EU taxonomy has not yet been
definitively clarified. For this reason, BASF products based on chemically recycled raw materials were
not considered further in the assessment either. Mechanical recycling did not play any role for BASF in
this context.
In the second step, it was assessed whether the potentially taxonomy-aligned products make a
substantial contribution to climate change mitigation in accordance with the activity-specific criteria.
Among other things, the greenhouse gas emissions of European and non-European plants to produce
soda ash and nitric acid were compared with the average values of the most efficient plants under the EU
emissions trading system. For the production of hydrogen, chlorine, ammonia and plastics in primary
form, the comparison was with the activity-specific quantitative criteria, such as the energy or emission
intensity of a product. This was based on a digital solution developed by BASF to determine product-
specific carbon emissions (see page 194). With respect to measuring capital expenditures for the
manufacture of emission-free hydrogen at our Ludwigshafen site (construction of a proton exchange
membrane electrolyzer), a funding commitment from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs
and Climate Action was taken into account, as was a study on greenhouse gas emissions in hydrogen
production carried out by the German environmental agency (Umweltbundesamt, UBA). The 2024
reporting year was the first year in which we reviewed whether the activity of manufacture of active
pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active substances made a substantial contribution to the
environmental objective of pollution prevention and control. In so doing, we compared the activity in
question with the activity-specific product criteria.
Finally, in the third step of the process, it was assessed whether the products identified cause significant
harm to the other environmental objectives. This included an analysis of risks arising from climate change
using climate risk and vulnerability assessments. At sites with material climate risk, the existence of
adaptation solutions was additionally analyzed and evaluated. The avoidance of significant harm to water
and marine resources4, biodiversity and ecosystems5, and pollution prevention and control were
assumed for production plants in Europe based on comprehensive and uniform regulatory requirements
and additionally ensured through data queries. The taxonomy alignment of non-European plants was
assessed on a case-by-case basis. This was based on joint assessments by local and central experts
using the evidence of local production requirements submitted.
The criteria for minimum social safeguards as a further pillar of taxonomy alignment in accordance with
Article 18 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation were reviewed for all activities across the BASF Group that
involve the four core topics of human rights (including labor rights), corruption/bribery, taxation and fair
competition. The review was independent of the step-by-step process for the contribution to climate
change mitigation and harm to other environmental objectives criteria. Minimum social safeguards were
ensured by a systematic, integrated and risk-based approach to safeguarding our human rights due
diligence obligations (see page 154), by global labor and social standards (see page 274), and by the
BASF Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 295), among other things.
Taxonomy-aligned sales revenue accounted for 1.2% of the total sales revenue defined and reported in
the BASF Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements in 2024 (see page 358), with the greatest
4 Protection of water and marine resources is assumed at sites that do not use or treat water.
5 A radius of three kilometers around production sites was defined for the analysis of biodiversity-sensitive areas.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 259
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
contribution coming from the manufacture of batteries (0.9%). Taxonomy-aligned capital expenditures
(including acquisitions and excluding goodwill in accordance with the EU taxonomy) accounted for 3.7%
of the total investments reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. A substantial contribution of
2.6% was identified with respect to capital expenditures for the manufacture of batteries (additions to
property, plant and equipment). We are also investing in a plant to produce emission-free hydrogen
which will be commissioned in the coming years. The plant nonetheless fulfills the criteria for taxonomy
alignment and is accordingly reported as capital expenditure pursuant to Section 1.1.2.2(a) of Annex I to
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178. Taxonomy-aligned operating expenditures
accounted for 1.7% of total operating expenditures, with the largest contribution coming from the
economic activity of manufacture of batteries (1.1%). There were no substantial changes to our
taxonomy-aligned sales revenues or capital and operating expenditures.
The taxonomy-aligned portion of BASF’s economic activities remains considerably lower than the
taxonomy-eligible portion due to various factors. For instance, only a small proportion of plastics in
primary form contain renewable raw materials in an amount above the threshold value (5%). The
proportion of taxonomy-aligned activities is additionally reduced by the fact that many plants exceed the
benchmarks used by the EU taxonomy. For example, the use of renewable energies is disregarded as a
result of the strict requirements for calculating emissions in European emissions trading. Among other
things, our steam cracker investment at our Zhanjiang, China site was assessed as not taxonomy-aligned
even though it contributes to avoiding a considerable amount of carbon emissions. In addition, plants
that are not subject to emissions trading and thus cannot be assessed using the specified criteria were
generally classified as not taxonomy-aligned. The economic activity of manufacture of active
pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active substances was assessed for the first time, thus focusing
taxonomy alignment on newly developed substances that constitute a suitable replacement for an
existing product that does not meet the criteria for biodegradability. This resulted in established active
ingredients with multiple benefits for human health – such as ibuprofen – being assessed as not
taxonomy-aligned.
For more information on sales revenues, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements from
page 358 onward. For more information on capital expenditures, see Note 14 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements from page 378 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 260
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned sales revenue, capital expenditures (capex) and
operating expenditures (opex) in 2024
Proportion of sales revenue/ Proportion of capex/ Proportion of opex/
Code total sales revenue total capex total opex
Taxonomy- Taxonomy- Taxonomy- Taxonomy- Taxonomy- Taxonomy-
aligned eligible aligned eligible aligned eligible
per objective per objective per objective per objective per objective per objective
(in %) (in %) (in %) (in %) (in %) (in %)
Climate change CCM
mitigation 1.2 11.7 3.7 21.1 1.7 10.1
Climate change CCA
adaptation – – – – – –
Water and WTR
marine
resources – – – – – –
Circular CE
economy – – – – – –
Pollution PPC
prevention and
control – – – 0.3 – 1.7
Biodiversity and BIO
ecosystems – – – – – –
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 261
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
EU Taxonomy indicators: 2024 sales revenue
DNSH criteria
Business year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria (“do no significant harm”)
Proportion of
taxonomy-
aligned
(A.1.) or
Propor- Climate Climate Climate Climate taxonomy-
tion of change change Bio- change change Bio- Minimum eligible (A.2.) Category: Category:
Sales sales mitiga- adapta- Circular diversity mitiga- adapta- Circular diversity safe- sales enabling transitional
Economic activities Code revenue revenue tion tion Water economy Pollution tion tion Water economy Pollution guards revenue 2023 activity activity
Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/
Million € In % ELa ELa ELa ELa ELa ELa Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na In % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of batteries CCM 3.4 584 0.9 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 1.2 E –
Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings CCM 3.5 44 0.1 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0 E –
Manufacture of soda ash CCM 3.12 1 0.0 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0 – T
Manufacture of organic basic chemicals CCM 3.14 111 0.2 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.3 – T
Manufacture of plastics in primary form CCM 3.17 13 0.0 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0 – T
Sales revenue for environmentally sustainable activities
(taxonomy-aligned) 753 1.2 1.2% – – – – – – Y Y Y Y Y Y 1.6
Of which enabling activity (E) 628 1.0 1.0% – – – – – – Y Y Y Y Y Y 1.3 E
Of which transitional activity (T) 125 0.2 0.2% – – – – – – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.3 T
A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa
Manufacture of batteries CCM 3.4 0 0.0 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL –
Manufacture of hydrogen CCM 3.10 7 0.0 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0
Manufacture of soda ash CCM 3.12 3 0.0 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0
Manufacture of chlorine CCM 3.13 1 0.0 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0
Manufacture of organic basic chemicals CCM 3.14 2,772 4.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 3.1
Manufacture of anhydrous ammonia CCM 3.15 137 0.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.2
Manufacture of nitric acid CCM 3.16 121 0.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.2
Manufacture of plastics in primary form CCM 3.17 4,359 6.7 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 6.7
Manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active
substancesb PPC 1.1 264 0.4 N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL EL N/EL 0.3
Sales revenue for taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned) 7,665 11.7 11.3% – – – 0.4% – 10.6
Total A.1. + A.2. 8,418 12.9 12.5% – – – 0.4% – 12.2
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
Sales revenue for taxonomy-non-eligible activities 56,842 87.1
Total 65,260 100.0
a Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible activity that is taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible activity that is not taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; EL: Eligible, taxonomy-eligible activity for the respective objective; N/EL: Not eligible,
taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the respective environmental objective
b For the economic activity manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active substances, the assessment for taxonomy alignment had to be carried out for the first time for the 2024 financial year in accordance with delegated acts.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 262
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
EU taxonomy indicators: 2024 capital expenditures (capex)
DNSH criteria
Business year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria (“do no significant harm”)
Proportion of
taxonomy-
aligned
Climate Climate Climate Climate (A.1.) or
Invest- Propor- change change Bio- change change Bio- Minimum taxonomy- Category: Category:
ments tion of mitiga- adapta- Circular diversity mitiga- adapta- Circular diversity safe- eligible (A.2.) enabling transitional
Economic activities Code (capex) capex tion tion Water economy Pollution tion tion Water economy Pollution guards capex 2023 activity activity
Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/
Million € In % ELa ELa ELa ELa ELa ELa Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na In % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of batteries CCM 3.4 170 2.6 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – YY YY YY YY YY Y 4.1 E –
Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings CCM 3.5 0 0.0 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0 E –
Manufacture of hydrogen CCM 3.10 59 0.9 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.7 – –
Manufacture of soda ash CCM 3.12 10 0.1 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.3 – T
Manufacture of organic basic chemicals CCM 3.14 6 0.1 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.2 – T
Manufacture of plastics in primary form CCM 3.17 0 0.0 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.0 – T
Capex for environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-
aligned) 244 3.7 3.7% – – – – – – Y Y Y Y Y Y 5.2
Of which enabling activity (E) 170 2.6 2.6% – – – – – – Y Y Y Y Y Y 4.1 E
Of which transitional activity (T) 15 0.2 0.2% – – – – – – Y Y Y Y Y Y 0.5 T
A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa
Manufacture of hydrogen CCM 3.10 10 0.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.3
Manufacture of soda ash CCM 3.12 0 0.0 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0
Manufacture of chlorine CCM 3.13 12 0.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.9
Manufacture of organic basic chemicals CCM 3.14 880 13.3 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 10.3
Manufacture of anhydrous ammonia CCM 3.15 15 0.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.5
Manufacture of nitric acid CCM 3.16 4 0.1 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.0
Manufacture of plastics in primary form CCM 3.17 170 2.6 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 3.1
High-efficiency cogeneration of heat/cool and power from fossil
gaseous fuels CCM 4.30 149 2.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL -
Acquisition and ownership of buildings CCM 7.7 157 2.4 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 2.4
Manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active
substancesb PPC 1.1 20 0.3 N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL EL N/EL 0.3
Capex for taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned) 1,418 21.4 21.1% – – – 0.3% – 17.8
Total A.1. + A.2. 1,662 25.0 24.7% – – – 0.3% – 23.1
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
Capex for taxonomy-non-eligible activities 4,976 75.0
Total 6,638 100.0
a Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible activity that is taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible activity that is not taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; EL: Eligible, taxonomy-eligible activity for the respective objective; N/EL: Not eligible,
taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the respective environmental objective
b For the economic activity manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active substances, the assessment for taxonomy alignment had to be carried out for the first time for the 2024 financial year in accordance with delegated acts.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 263
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
EU taxonomy indicators: 2024 operating expenditures (opex)
DNSH criteria
Business year 2024 Substantial contribution criteria (“do no significant harm”)
Proportion of
taxonomy-
aligned
Operating Climate Climate Climate Climate (A.1.) or
expendi- Propor- change change Bio- change change Bio- Minimum taxonomy- Category: Category:
tures tion of mitiga- adapta- Circular diversity mitiga- adapta- Circular diversity safe- eligible (A.2.) enabling transitional
Economic activities Code (opex) opex tion tion Water economy Pollution tion tion Water economy Pollution guards capex 2023 activity activity
Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/ Y; N; N/
Million € In % ELa ELa ELa ELa ELa ELa Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na Y/Na In % E T
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-aligned)
Manufacture of batteries CCM 3.4 52 1.1 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y YY YY YY Y 0.6 E –
Manufacture of energy efficiency equipment for buildings CCM 3.5 2 0.0 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y YY YY YY Y 0.1 E –
Manufacture of soda ash CCM 3.12 5 0.1 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y – Y Y Y 0.1 – T
Manufacture of organic basic chemicals CCM 3.14 14 0.3 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y – Y Y Y 0.9 – T
Manufacture of plastics in primary form CCM 3.17 6 0.1 Y N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL – Y Y – Y Y Y 0.1 – T
Opex for environmentally sustainable activities (taxonomy-
aligned) 79 1.7 1.7% – – – – – – Y YY Y Y Y Y 1.8
Of which enabling activity (E) 54 1.2 1.2% – – – – – – Y YY Y Y Y Y 0.7 E
Of which transitional activity (T) 26 0.6 0.6% – – – – – – Y Y - Y Y Y 1.1 T
A.2. Taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned)
EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa EL; N/ELa
Manufacture of hydrogen CCM 3.10 39 0.9 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.8
Manufacture of soda ash CCM 3.12 4 0.1 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.1
Manufacture of chlorine CCM 3.13 33 0.7 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.7
Manufacture of organic basic chemicals CCM 3.14 195 4.2 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 3.9
Manufacture of anhydrous ammonia CCM 3.15 23 0.5 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.4
Manufacture of nitric acid CCM 3.16 14 0.3 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 0.3
Manufacture of plastics in primary form CCM 3.17 158 3.4 EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL 3.5
Manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active
substancesb PPC 1.1 77 1.7 N/EL N/EL N/EL N/EL EL N/EL 0.9
Opex for taxonomy-eligible but not environmentally
sustainable activities (not taxonomy-aligned) 542 11.7 10.1% – – – 1.7% – 10.7
Total A.1. + A.2. 621 13.5 11.8% – – – 1.7% – 12.4
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
Opex for taxonomy-non-eligible activities 3,998 86.5
Total 4,619 100.0
a Y: Yes, taxonomy-eligible activity that is taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; N: No, taxonomy-eligible activity that is not taxonomy-aligned with the relevant environmental objective; EL: N/EL: Not eligible, taxonomy-non-eligible activity for the respective environmental
objective
b For the economic activity manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) or active substances, the assessment for taxonomy alignment had to be carried out for the first time for the 2024 financial year in accordance with delegated acts.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 264
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Template 1 Nuclear and fossil gas related activities
Row Nuclear energy related activities Yes/No
1 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation No
facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from the fuel cycle.
2 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produce electricity or No
process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades,
using best available technologies.
3 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electricity or process heat, No
including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety
upgrades.
Row Fossil gas related activities Yes/No
4 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that produce electricity using No
fossil gaseous fuels.
5 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation Yes
facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.
6 The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilities that produce heat/ No
cool using fossil gaseous fuels.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 265
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Template 2 Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (denominator)
Amount and proportion of sales (the information is to be presented in Amount and proportion of capex (the information is to be presented in Amount and proportion of opex (the information is to be presented in
monetary amounts and as percentages) monetary amounts and as percentages) monetary amounts and as percentages)
Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change
mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA
Row Economic activities Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € %
1 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable
KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
2 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable
KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
3 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable
KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
4 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable
KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
5 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable
KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
6 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable
KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned
economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in
the denominator of the applicable KPI 753 1.2 – – 753 1.2 244 3.7 – – 244 3.7 79 1.7 – – 79 1.7
8 Total applicable KPI 65,260 100.0 – – 65,260 100.0 6,638 100.0 – – 6,638 100.0 4,619 100.0 – – 4,619 100.0
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 266
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Template 3 Taxonomy-aligned economic activities (numerator)
Amount and proportion of sales (the information is to be presented in Amount and proportion of capex (the information is to be presented in Amount and proportion of opex (the information is to be presented in
monetary amounts and as percentages) monetary amounts and as percentages) monetary amounts and as percentages)
Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change
mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA
Row Economic activities Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € %
1 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
2 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
3 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
4 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
5 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
6 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-aligned economic activity
referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the numerator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned
economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in
the numerator of the applicable KPI 753 1.2 – – 753 1.2 244 3.7 – – 244 3.7 79 1.7 – – 79 1.7
8 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-aligned
economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in
the numerator of the applicable KPI 753 1.2 – – 753 1.2 244 3.7 – – 244 3.7 79 1.7 – – 79 1.7
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 267
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Template 4 Taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-aligned economic activities
Amount and proportion of sales (the information is to be presented in Amount and proportion of capex (the information is to be presented in Amount and proportion of opex (the information is to be presented in
monetary amounts and as percentages) monetary amounts and as percentages) monetary amounts and as percentages)
Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change Climate change
mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA mitigation (CCM) adaptation (CCA) CCM + CCA
Row Economic activities Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € % Million € %
1 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the
denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
2 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the
denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
3 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the
denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
4 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the
denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
5 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the
denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – 149 2.2 – – 149 2.2 – – – – – –
6 Amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not taxonomy-
aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of
Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the
denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-eligible but not
taxonomy-aligned economic activities not referred to in
rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable
KPI 7,401 11.3 – – 7,401 11.3 1,250 18.9 – – 1,250 18.9 467 10.1 – – 467 10.1
8 Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-eligible but not
taxonomy-aligned economic activities in the denominator
of the applicable KPI 7,401 11.3 – – 7,401 11.3 1,398 21.1 – – 1,398 21.1 467 10.1 – – 467 10.1
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 268
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Template 5 Taxonomy non-eligible economic activities
Sales revenue Capex Opex
Row Economic activities Million € % Million € % Million € %
1 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is
taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – –
2 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is
taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – –
3 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is
taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – –
4 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is
taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – –
5 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is
taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – –
6 Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is
taxonomy-non-eligible in accordance with Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated
Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI – – – – – –
7 Amount and proportion of other taxonomy-non-eligible economic activities not
referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI 56,842 87.1 4,976 75.0 3,996 86.5
8 Total amount and proportion of taxonomy-non-eligible economic activities in the
denominator of the applicable KPI 56,842 87.1 4,976 75.0 3,996 86.5
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 269
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Social
S1 Own Workforce1
ESRS S1
Our employees are crucial to BASF’s success. We want to attract and
retain talents for our company and support them in their development. We
also want to create a working environment that inspires and connects
people every day. This is founded on an open corporate culture of mutual
trust, respect and dedication to top performance.
ESRS 2 SBM-2
BASF introduced a plan for our company’s long-term success in 2024 with the “Winning Ways” strategy
(see page 18). Our success also depends on the high level of engagement of our skilled employees. A
growing business also has positive impacts on our employees, such as an attractive comprehensive
package and job security. We ask for feedback from our workforce or their representatives via various
formats (see page 280). This feedback can be considered when developing our strategic direction. For
example, an internal survey conducted in 2024 indicated that processes were perceived to be too
complex or bureaucratic. This was one reason we focused on simplifying processes in our new strategy.
An integral part of our business model and our strategy is human rights due diligence. We see human
rights due diligence as an important, all-encompassing task that we can only perform by working
together as a team throughout the entire organization. For more information, see page 272 onward.
S1-6
This chapter refers to employees who were employed in a company within the BASF Group’s scope of
consolidation as of December 31, 2024. This includes full-time and part-time employees as well as
apprentices. We report figures on our employees both as of the reporting date indicated and for the 2024
reporting year period in the “Metrics” section from page 288 onward. We do not report figures on
nonemployee workers in our company for the 2024 reporting year. How we involve our employees is
described on pages 276 and 279 as well in other sections.
Results of the double materiality assessment
ESRS 2 SBM-3
In our double materiality assessment (see page 167), topics in the topic category Own Workforce were
defined as material. In this context, we identified five material impacts on employees and three risks for
BASF2 (see the following table). These impacts and risks apply to all employees who were employed in a
company within the BASF Group’s scope of consolidation as of December 31, 2024; they are globally
valid with the exception of the information found on page 277. We systematically record opportunities
and risks as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87
onward).
1 According to the ESRS definition, a company’s own workforce are employees and nonemployee workers.
2 Two risks and two impacts regarding skill development have been grouped together in the overview table where this made sense.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 270
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for S1 Own Workforce: Impacts
Placement in the value
Impacts Evaluation chain Description
Adequate wages Positive BASF’s own operations Our market-oriented compensation and corresponding
additional benefits contribute to an attractive comprehensive
package to attract and retain motivated and qualified
employees. In this way, we create attractive working
conditions for our employees and make a positive contribution
to society.
Training and skill Negative, BASF’s own operations Demographic and technological shift as well as changing skill
development potential profiles can potentially lead to employment and qualification
gaps among our skilled employees and leaders. In a rapidly
changing environment, new and increasing demands can
potentially have a negative impact on employee engagement.
Possible health and Negative, BASF’s own operations Our employees are exposed to a potential health and safety
safety risk due to potential risk because they work in laboratories and production plants
handling hazardous and handle chemicals, including hazardous substances.
chemicals
Risk to health and Negative, BASF’s own operations There is a potential risk to our employees’ health and safety if
safety if rules are not potential instructions on occupational safety and health protection and
followed or are rules in our production processes are not followed.
ineffective
Results of the double materiality assessment for S1 Own Workforce: Risks and opportunities
Risks Assessment Description
Secure employment Negative The macroeconomic situation, combined with structural adjustments at BASF, may
unsettle employees and pose challenges in terms of employee retention and
engagement.
Skills development Negative Changing skill profiles and intensified global competition for skilled employees and leaders
and recruitment of due to demographic and technological change can lead to a loss of skills and knowledge
skilled employees in our workforce or affect our ability to adequately and quickly develop them.
The material topics in the sense of the double materiality assessment are skill development, recruitment
of skilled employees and adequate wages. This is due to our high need for skilled employees. Working in
a chemical company is linked to potential health and safety hazards. It is therefore important and
challenging for our business model to attract and retain well-trained and qualified employees for the long
term.
The following topics are not discussed in detail with respect to corresponding policies, actions, targets
and metrics since they were deemed nonmaterial in the sense of the double materiality assessment:
– In the context of working conditions: working time; social dialog; freedom of association; the existence
of works councils and the information, consultation and participation rights of workers; collective
bargaining, including rate of workers covered by collective agreements; work-life balance.
– In the context of equal treatment and opportunities for all: gender equality and equal pay for work of
equal value, employment and inclusion of persons with disabilities, measures against violence and
harassment in the workplace, diversity.
– In the context of other work-related rights: no child labor, no forced labor, adequate housing, privacy.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 271
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Even if these topics are nonmaterial for us in the sense of the double materiality assessment, they are
being monitored and actively shaped by our experts. We want to ensure our employees’ rights are
protected and that we can react early and appropriately to potential risks.
»For more information on our strategies and measures, see basf.com/en/employees
Strategy and governance
S1-1 ESRS 2 SBM-3
For explanations of BASF policies that we reference in more than one chapter, please see General
Disclosures in the Sustainability Statement on page 151. These include disclosures regarding scope,
accountability, impacts in the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and
engagement thereof.
Human rights due diligence
The basis of our social responsibility is respect for human rights, including workers’ rights – in our own
activities as well as in our business relationships. BASF is a founding member of the
U.N. Global Compact and a member of the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights. Our long-term
voluntary commitment guides our engagement in human rights. We are committed to respecting
internationally recognized human rights in our own activities and promoting them along our value chains.
We are very careful to neither cause nor contribute to human rights violations in our own business
activities. BASF is also active in initiatives such as Together for Sustainability (TfS) and
Responsible Care®.
We consider human rights due diligence to be an important and comprehensive task and have set up our
organization accordingly. That is why our responsibility for human rights has been in our Code of
Conduct for many years and is set out in our Policy Statement on Human Rights.
Our corporate value “responsible” (see page 19) includes striving to apply high standards for responsible
labor and social standards as well as protecting health and safety worldwide. All employees and leaders
are responsible for putting these standards into practice and respecting human rights. To fulfill this
obligation, we developed a systematic, integrated and risk-based due diligence approach as well as clear
processes for monitoring and managing human rights risks.
The implementation of human rights due diligence is an ongoing task requiring a robust management
system and the corresponding organizational structure. Effective cross-functional collaboration with
strong teamwork is an essential component. We want to ensure that we:
– Identify, weight and prioritize our human rights risks through scheduled and incident-related analyses
– Address risks with effective preventive measures and with appropriate remedial actions in the case of
violations
– Integrate the actions into all relevant functions and operational processes and regularly review their
effectiveness
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 272
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The head of our legal and compliance organization also acts as Chief Human Rights Officer, who
oversees the overarching risk management system and reports regularly to the Board of Executive
Directors and the Audit Committee on human rights issues. The overarching governance of human rights
due diligence at BASF is the responsibility of our Compliance unit. In addition, various specialist units are
responsible for steering specific human rights topics. Experts in the fields of international labor and social
standards, environmental protection, health and safety, as well as corporate security work on a risk-
oriented basis to ensure that we respect the relevant human rights in our own activities.
We have integrated human rights-related assessments into our governance and decision-making
processes, for example for investments and acquisitions. Our internal cross-unit
Human Rights Expert Working Group, managed by the Compliance unit, facilitates close collaboration
between the above mentioned specialist units, which also include specialists from the areas of
Procurement, Legal, Human Resources, Sustainability, Communication and Government Relations. They
regularly discuss the latest topics and developments related to human rights, provide support in the
improvement of our internal processes, offer training and advise on challenging issues. Our concept also
includes structured collaboration with the operating divisions to identify and actively address division-
specific risks. Our Human Rights Advisory Council is a source of additional external human rights
expertise for us. The Council, which comprises independent international human rights experts, meets
several times per year. The trust-based dialog on human rights topics helps us to better understand
different perspectives and to deal more openly with critical situations.
Human rights due diligence is an ongoing task for us. We therefore review our processes and measures
in this area on a regular basis and improve them as needed. Our strategies relating to our workforce are
in accordance with the following internationally recognized standards for responsible business conduct:
– United Nations’ (U.N.) Universal Declaration of Human Rights
– U.N. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
– U.N. International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
– Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization
(ILO)
– Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy of the ILO
– The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact
– U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
– OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
– Responsible Care® Global Charter of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA)
As a global company with more than 100,000 employees around the world, we are exposed to a number
of inherent human rights risks with regard to international labor and social standards, especially in
countries with higher human rights risks. We have established clear principles, guidelines and processes
to identify and address these risks accordingly.
We mainly approach our responsibility to act in compliance with international labor and social standards
using three elements: the Compliance Program (including the BASF Compliance Hotline, see page 321),
close dialog with our stakeholders (such as with employee representatives or international organizations,
see also page 279) and our requirements on adherence to international labor and social standards,
applicable Group-wide.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 273
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Part of our central due diligence system is a global, risk-based management process, whereby we
monitor relevant changes in national laws of the countries where BASF operates and evaluate them for
compliance with international labor and social standards. The results of this comparison as well as any
measures taken to implement our requirements on international labor and social standards are tracked
and documented. The evaluation is carried out regularly for selected BASF Group companies based on
country-specific risk assessments. If there is a heightened inherent risk of violations of workers’ and
human rights in a country, the Group companies located there are evaluated more frequently. If national
laws contain no or lower requirements compared to labor and social standards defined by BASF, action
plans are developed to bridge these gaps. If conflicts with national laws or practices arise, we aim to
uphold our values and strive to adhere to our internationally recognized standards, all while ensuring
compliance with the laws of the respective country.
Individual elements of our requirements on international labor and social standards are audited internally
(Responsible Care audits) at selected BASF Group companies. In addition, international labor and social
standards are an integral part of the Corporate Audit unit’s compliance management audits (see
page 323). Furthermore, audits are performed on specific matters.
BASF’s international labor and social standards stipulate the fundamental principles and rights at work
with regard to freedom, equity, security and dignity (see graphic):
These principles are applicable at BASF worldwide and are the responsibility of Corporate Human
Resources, which reports directly to the Board of Executive Directors. We expect compliance from all
leaders and employees and provide internal target group-specific training sessions on labor and social
standards on a regular basis.
The following provides a more in-depth description of some of the fundamental principles and rights
regarding international labor and social standards at BASF:
No child labor and no forced labor
BASF expressly prohibits any form of child or forced labor, including slavery and human trafficking. This
is also specified in the BASF Group’s Policy Statement on Human Rights. These topics are part of our
analyses and requirements because we operate in countries where forms of child and forced labor exist.
To prevent incidents of child or forced labor within our company, we identify and address these risks and
take the appropriate preventive measures (see page 273). In 2024, there were no indications of
individuals in our company being subjected to forced labor or child labor. Our disclosures on any
incidents, complaints and severe human rights impacts can be found in the “Metrics” section (see
page 290).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 274
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
No discrimination, harassment or other forms of workplace distress
The BASF Group’s Policy Statement on Human Rights contains our commitment to a fair, diverse and
inclusive working environment characterized by mutual trust and respect as well as respectful interaction
between all employees. This is also an integral component of our globally applicable Code of Conduct for
all employees.
We are committed to equal opportunities whereby no one is at a disadvantage due to race, gender, age,
skin color, nationality, disability, religion or worldview, sexual orientation, ethnicity, social status, marital
status, gender identity or expression, political opinion, pregnancy, maternity, parental status or any other
characteristics protected by law. This includes equal pay for equal work. We embrace the diversity of our
employees.
We take the risk of discrimination very seriously and are aware that discrimination can occur in
companies. At BASF, we expect human resources-related decisions to be made based on objective
criteria. We do not tolerate discrimination, harassment or any other form of abuse. If, however, incidents
come to our attention, for example via our grievance channels, we aim to act immediately and take the
appropriate remedial actions (see page 281 and 290). Based on external definitions such as those
provided by the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, we consider individuals to
potentially be at particular risk: people – especially women – belonging to minorities, nonemployee
workers, people with disabilities, underage employees and expectant mothers and parents. In addition,
employees with a migrant background may face a heightened risk of human rights violations and
discrimination. This can manifest in various ways, such as the denial of rights, harassment, and unequal
treatment when it comes to job applications or promotions.
As part of our initiative against sexual harassment and discrimination, we launched a communication
campaign in May 2024 at the Ludwigshafen site in Germany to raise awareness about the fact that
discrimination and harassment have no place at BASF. This campaign will continue at additional BASF
Group sites in 2025.
We take into account the unique challenges parents face, particularly with regard to the health and well-
being of expectant and nursing mothers. Our goal is to protect their health and shield them and their
children from harm (maternity protection, see page 274). We are committed to acting with particular care
toward mothers and ensuring that they are treated with respect. Working women should be protected
from all forms of discrimination related to their pregnancy or status as a mother.
An additional global requirement stipulates the promotion of diversity and inclusion within the BASF
Group with a focus on the corporate value of “open” (see page 19).3 It defines standards for a fair
working environment and emphasizes the importance of equal opportunities and compliance with
antidiscrimination laws. The objective is to establish a diverse and inclusive working environment in
which our employees enjoy working. The requirement is supported through national or local actions.
3 We interpret and apply our relevant principles, requirements and programs in accordance with applicable local laws.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 275
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
When identifying leadership talents, we also take into account the promotion and appreciation of
diversity, for example when it comes to women. Furthermore, we have committed to increasing the
proportion of women in leadership positions to 30% by 2030.4 As of December 31, 2024, the proportion
of women working in the BASF Group was 27.1%. The proportion of women in leadership positions with
disciplinary responsibility worldwide was 29.3% (2023: 28.4%) as of December 31, 2024. BASF’s
management reviews the status of this target achievement on a regular basis via a global dashboard.
»For more information on our activities relating to diversity, equal opportunities and inclusion, see basf.com/diversity_and_inclusion and
basf.com/diversity
Effective recognition of the rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining
We recognize the right to freedom of association, promote collective bargaining and support social
partnerships. All employees have the right to form, join or support legally recognized labor unions or
other forms of worker representation in accordance with applicable legal regulations. This fundamental
right should never be denied or restricted. BASF supports the rights of employees to participate in
collective bargaining through their chosen labor organizations. We also do not tolerate any discrimination
or retaliation against employees based on their membership, nonmembership or involvement in labor
unions. For more information on the implementation of these principles, see the section “Engaging
employees and their representatives” (page 279).
»For more information on our Policy Statement on Human Rights and our human rights commitment and approach, see
basf.com/humanrights
In the following section, we discuss the material topics according to the results of our double materiality
assessment (see page 271).
Adequate wages
The Corporate Center’s Corporate Human Resources unit provides a globally consistent framework for
employee compensation. We offer our employees appropriate, performance-related and market-oriented
compensation, supplemented by attractive additional benefits. Compensation is based on global
compensation principles according to position and function, market environment and performance.
These principles are stipulated in three BASF Group-wide requirements (compensation by position and
function, market-oriented compensation, performance-based compensation). Among other things, they
serve to ensure that equivalent positions are compensated in a comparable way regardless of gender,
ethnic background or any other characteristics, and that the local market conditions of the respective site
and differences in employee performance are considered accordingly. In many countries and companies,
our additional benefits exceed legal requirements and include, for example, company pension benefits,
supplementary health insurance and share programs. We want to attract engaged and qualified
employees and motivate them to achieve top performance with this comprehensive package that
includes individual development opportunities and a good working environment. Our global
compensation concepts help shape fair and competitive remuneration for employees in accordance with
our requirements on international labor and social standards.
Skill development
Attracting and retaining the best employees is crucial to our success. Technological change is leading to
new demands being placed on our employees. Demographic change is also increasing the effort
involved in recruiting skilled employees. This can lead to skill gaps and vacant positions in the workforce.
Both of these can result in lower employee motivation, posing new challenges for us when it comes to
recruiting and retaining skilled employees. Skill development is a key instrument in this context. We want
to boost employees’ satisfaction, productivity and innovative power through the ongoing improvement of
their skills and expertise.
4 In so doing, we act in accordance with applicable local laws.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 276
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The Corporate Center’s Corporate Human Resources unit provides a globally consistent framework for
employee skill development and leadership excellence. A Group-wide requirement defines our process
for employee development and the corresponding instruments and responsibilities. It also defines the
degree of freedom the divisions have in this process in order to ensure comparable conditions for
employees and address the different needs in our organization. Employee development at BASF is based
on the principle that all employees have the opportunity to expand their skills and experience through
learning or changing positions and are supported in doing so. Learning takes place according to
individual and job-specific requirements and can be accomplished in different ways: independent study
during work hours, social learning through exchange with others or formal learning in settings such as
training and further education courses. Additionally, our requirements on international labor and social
standards prohibit discriminatory practices that could restrict or prevent the personal and professional
development of employees based on inadmissible criteria.
Our leaders play an important role in the engagement and development of our employees. We have
therefore stipulated in a Group-wide requirement how BASF defines excellent leadership based on our
values and what behavior we expect from our leaders. We thus place particular emphasis on the desired
leadership behavior in our leadership development and assessment.
We are currently adjusting our corporate requirements for leadership and employee development to
reflect our new strategy. We are monitoring the implementation of these requirements through regular
surveys of employees and leaders. This also provides us with feedback from our workforce on
development opportunities (see page 283).
Recruitment of skilled employees
Due to the intense global competition for the best skilled employees and leaders as well as demographic
change, especially in North America and Europe, there is a risk that vacant positions may not be filled or
only with a delay. We also see the risk of not being able to reach, hire and retain enough talent.
The shortage of skilled employees in many industries is also making it more difficult to attract and retain
staff. We are therefore stepping up our recruitment and onboarding efforts. This is particularly the case
for people with expertise in the fields of IT, artificial intelligence, production, engineering or natural
sciences. In addition, a tense macroeconomic situation combined with structural adjustments at BASF
may have a negative effect on employee engagement and loyalty to the company.
The Corporate Center’s Corporate Human Resources unit provides a globally consistent framework for
recruiting skilled employees and obtaining feedback. A global talent acquisition requirement stipulates
how we position BASF as an employer and want to attract employees for our company. It defines the
corresponding principles, roles and responsibilities and is aimed at all employees, including leaders (see
page 284). We offer an attractive comprehensive package to be a compelling choice as an employer (see
page 282). We monitor compliance with the talent acquisition requirement via the Employee Voices
survey which enables employees to express their feedback on their working environment and corporate
culture.
By regularly conducting this survey we implement the global requirement to actively involve employees in
shaping their working environment, thereby monitoring the implementation of many of the topics
discussed above as well as the development of our employees’ engagement. For more information on
this and how employees and their representation are generally involved in shaping their workplace, see
page 279 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 277
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Occupational safety and health
S1-1 S1-14
We regard health and safety as our highest priorities and are aware of the material potential negative
effects for our employees. To that end, the Corporate Center’s Corporate Environmental Protection,
Health, Safety & Quality unit sets globally binding standards for occupational safety and health. Our
safety and health management includes all employees worldwide. We have established comprehensive
management and control systems based on the guiding principles of the global Responsible Care®
initiative of the International Council of Chemical Associations and focused on protecting the lives and
health of all employees in the workplace. We also want to ensure compliance with our requirements
through our control systems.
Our safety concepts are designed to provide highest level of protection for our employees in our
company. At the same time, these concepts should ensure compliance with legal requirements. Our sites
and Group companies are responsible for implementing and ensuring compliance with both Group-wide
requirements and local guidelines. They are supported in this task by global networks of experts. The
Corporate Center’s Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit reports directly to
the Board of Executive Directors and conducts regular audits to review compliance with guidelines, while
sites and Group companies implement these guidelines locally. We follow a risk-based approach and
continuously update our requirements. For this reason, we also maintain a dialog with government
institutions, associations and international organizations.
Due to our many years of expertise in the field of occupational safety, we place a particular focus on
employees who handle hazardous substances and operate complex assets and machinery due to their
work in laboratories or production plants. We have set ourselves clear goals to reduce the potential risk
for our employees to a minimum (see page 287). We have comprehensive actions in place for this, which
are described from page 285 onward.
»For more information on occupational health and safety, see basf.com/health
Secure employment
S1-1
The Corporate Center’s Corporate Human Resources unit is responsible for the aforementioned
requirements regarding the BASF International Labor and Social Standards. These apply globally, and all
leaders and employees are expected to comply with them. We monitor adherence to the requirements
through a global risk-based management process for international labor and social standards at BASF
(see page 274). We recognize that stable employment and working conditions are crucial for our
employees. A tense macroeconomic situation combined with structural adjustments within the company
may unsettle employees, leading to lower engagement and employee retention to the company as well
as unplanned staff turnover. The principles outlined in the following section serve as the foundation for
employment at BASF. They align with our core principles and rights concerning international labor and
social standards at BASF. In the context of secure employment, we additionally uphold the rights to
freedom of association and collective bargaining as well as the right to maternity protection. These
principles are described from page 274 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 278
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Clearly defined working conditions
A clearly defined and mutually agreed-upon employment relationship forms the foundation of a fair and
trusting collaboration between the company and its employees. It should establish the rights and
responsibilities of both parties, helping to prevent conflicts and misunderstandings. Our goal is to inform
employees in an easily accessible and understandable manner about their working conditions, for
example regarding compensation, benefits, working environment and learning and development
opportunities. We aim to ensure that both parties are aware of their obligations and treat each other with
trust and respect. A global talent acquisition requirement, also overseen by Corporate Human
Resources, stipulates that all current and potential future employees must be informed of their working
conditions. We monitor compliance with this requirement via the Employee Voices survey, which among
other things measures our employees’ engagement.
Fair dismissal
BASF acknowledges every individual’s right to social security. We are aware of the risks associated with
a sudden loss of employment and income, which can lead to precarious situations for employees and
their families. To counteract this, we strive to adhere to internationally recognized principles for fair
dismissals. This includes engaging in dialog with the relevant employee representatives or unions to
ensure that employees are treated fairly and respectfully.
Fair disciplinary measures
Disciplinary measures must be fair, proportionate and conducted with respect for the dignity of all
involved. This means considering the personal circumstances of employees and their families when
deciding on how BASF responds to misconduct. Disciplinary measures should never be arbitrary or
discriminatory. We foster a culture of fairness even in cases of misconduct. This approach helps us
resolve compliance incidents and disputes (see also the following section).
Engaging with employees and their representatives
S1-2
Openness is one of BASF’s corporate values. That is why our stakeholder dialog is based on honesty,
respect and mutual trust.
Trust-based cooperation with employee representatives is an essential component of our corporate
culture (see page 23). Our open and ongoing dialog lays the foundation for balancing the interests of
BASF and our employees, even in challenging situations. Dialog formats differ depending on region and
the subject matter of the discussion. There are dedicated committees that discuss topics identified as
material in the sense of the ESRSs. Employee representatives are involved according to local legal
conditions. Dialog results can be used to implement actions, which also address the material impacts in
this area. Operational responsibility for the involvement of and dialog with employee representatives lies
with the management of the relevant Group company or its equivalent depending on the company’s legal
form. BASF maintains constructive relationships with employee representatives which is reflected in
trust-based cooperation. BASF provides the necessary human and financial resources for this dialog.
There are numerous agreements with employee representatives that are applied according to local
conditions in countries or Group companies. By aligning committee structures with local and regional
situations, we take into account the different challenges and legal conditions for each site. In this
context, we address a wide range of topics in areas such as working conditions and health and
occupational safety. Involving employee representatives gives BASF deeper insight into employees’ key
interests and perspectives. We consider agreements such as the successful renegotiation of the 2024
collective agreement for the chemical industry in Germany, in which BASF representatives took part, to
be a positive result of this dialog. The BASF Europa Betriebsrat (BASF Works Council Europe) addresses
cross-border matters in Europe. In South America, we foster the dialog with employee representatives in
the Diálogo Social. It most recently took place in 2023, and the next exchange is scheduled for early
2025.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 279
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In accordance with locally applicable legal conditions, our employees have the right to form, join and
support legally recognized unions or employee representation. These are entitled to represent employees
and their interests, for example in collective bargaining. BASF upholds these rights and has embedded
them in the Group-wide requirements on adherence with international labor and social standards. We are
also committed to social dialog with employee representatives where freedom of association is not
guaranteed under national law to the same extent as in European legal systems. In such cases, individual
Group companies use alternative dialog formats, such as informal meetings where employees can
exchange ideas.
In the case of organizational changes, if restructuring leads to the elimination of positions, or in the case
of other codetermination-relevant topics, we involve employee representatives in accordance with
existing participation rights to consult on socially responsible solutions. Meetings take place regularly as
well as on a case-by-case basis in which employee representatives are informed of general topics such
as the current economic situation. This would also apply if structural adjustments or other adverse
effects on employees were to arise due to our transition to climate neutrality. We also rely on our leaders
to explain changes regarding organizational changes or structural measures. BASF supports affected
employees, for example, with the development of their skills and finding other positions within our
company. Our aim is to act in accordance with the relevant legal regulations, existing agreements and
company conditions.
We involve employees in corporate processes by offering dialog on company topics using various
internal communication channels. We use these to inform them of upcoming company changes and
engage them in discussions about them. For example, we generally hold a quarterly global information
event with members of the Board of Executive Directors which employees can participate in on-site or
virtually. Following a presentation of strategically important content by the Board of Executive Directors,
employees have the opportunity to ask questions.
To actively involve employees in shaping their working environment, we are committed to multiple
feedback instruments. Their use is stipulated in a global requirement which is overseen and implemented
globally by Corporate Human Resources. We employ two key instruments. The FEEDback&forward
format provides leaders with regular feedback from their employees so that they can reflect on their
leadership behavior. Additionally, all employees are invited on a regular basis to give feedback on their
working environment and the corporate culture as part of our Employee Voices survey. We provide
dedicated human resources as well as financial resources as needed for these surveys. The results of
Employee Voices are communicated to employees, leaders, the Board of Executive Directors, the
Supervisory Board and others using various dialog formats (see page 280). The organizational units’
results are evaluated centrally and aggregated to provide leaders with concrete indications of positive
feedback and improvement potential. Results are evaluated using statistical and qualitative analytics and
discussed between leaders and employees, for example in workshops. This allows questions to be
clarified and necessary measures to be discussed. Through a decentralized approach, we can address
the multifaceted needs of our organization with different strengths and areas of development. The results
can also be considered in strategic decisions. For example, the 2024 survey indicated that processes
were perceived to be too complex or bureaucratic. This was one reason we focused on simplifying
processes and empowering employees with greater accountability in our new strategy (see page 23).
Overall, we are satisfied with the results of the survey for the 2024 business year. We nearly achieved our
target of exceeding 80% employee engagement in our company with 79% (see page 31).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 280
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In accordance with locally applicable legal conditions, we offer employees the opportunity to become
involved with one of our many Employee Resource Groups. That includes groups of individuals who
potentially experience more frequent discrimination. For example, there is a global resource group for
women at BASF, various groups for people in the LGBTQI+ community and local networks for people
living with disabilities. All interested employees can get involved in these networks.
As part of the 2024 Employee Voices global survey, we again used the inclusion index as a relevant
point of reference for the inclusion of our employees and provided our leaders with suggestions for
follow-up measures.
Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns
S1-3
BASF’s Compliance Hotline serves as a grievance mechanism and is open to all BASF employees as well
as external stakeholders, particularly workers in our value chains. For more information on how the
issues raised and addressed are tracked and monitored, see page 321. In addition to our grievance
mechanisms, employees can reach out to their leaders, their compliance officers or the human resources
department as well as their respective employee representatives to ask questions or raise concerns
about potential misconduct.
Our compliance training program, which includes regular global and local information campaigns as well
as details about our Compliance Hotline, is mandatory for all employees worldwide. Training and
informational offerings that provide specific knowledge on human rights and international labor and
social standards to various target groups worldwide also cover compliance topics and the BASF
Compliance Hotline.
Actions
S1-4
We address the impacts, risks and opportunities that we identified as material through various actions,
which we outline below using the subtopics material to this chapter. We employ the following central
measures:
– Annual compensation level review
– Employee dialogs and continuous meaningful conversations
– Wide range of training options
– The Skill Transformation Project
– Mandatory health and safety training for employees
– Additional training on safe handling of chemicals and the correct use of personal protective equipment
– Analysis of accidents and potential incidents
– Global health management activities such as BASF health checks
The Corporate Center’s Corporate Human Resources and Corporate Environmental Protection, Health,
Safety & Quality units set the framework for regulating key topics through requirements and providing
resources for central actions. Additional resources to implement the actions are made available by the
Global Business Services unit as well as teams working in the operating divisions and at our sites. For
example, local recruiting activities and education programs as well as health initiatives are carried out at
the respective sites based on target groups.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 281
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Adequate wages
Adequate compensation is an important component of the package we offer to employees that makes us
a compelling choice as employer. Our central action in this area is our annual review of our
compensation levels worldwide using external market data, among other things. This allows us to aim for
market-oriented and appropriate compensation in the respective countries or markets and to analyze the
effectiveness of adjustments to our compensation levels as part of the process.
As a rule, compensation comprises fixed and variable components as well as benefits. In many
countries, these benefits exceed legal requirements and include, for example, company pension benefits,
supplementary health insurance and share programs. We oversee implementation of our requirements
regarding compensation through the processes described below.
According to defined globally consistent criteria, positions are assigned BASF job grades independent of
individuals; these form the basis for compensation. Job grades are assigned according to the demands
of the respective function. In this way, we want to make positions comparable on a worldwide basis and
create a foundation for compensation commensurate with function. We use the BASF Group’s return on
capital employed (ROCE) to measure economic success for the purposes of variable compensation.
This links variable compensation to our ROCE target. Individual performance is assessed as part of a
globally consistent performance management process. In numerous Group companies, our “plus” share
program ensures employees’ long-term participation in the company’s success through incentive shares.
Corporate Human Resources reviews compliance with the regulations described above and works
closely with local units to do this. If changes are necessary, they are made in accordance with the
relevant local laws. In addition, we will introduce an enhanced performance management system that
provides a closer link between incentives and unit-specific achievements.
In the annual employee dialog, employees and leaders can discuss performance over the past year and
expectations for the current year (see page 283). Employees and leaders determine what level of detail is
necessary when the results are recorded.
We are committed to the U.N. Global Compact’s goal of paying our employees a living wage to support
them and their families by 2030. To this end, we review on a regular basis whether employees around the
world receive a wage sufficient to cover their and their families’ basic cost of living under the respective
general conditions. If any potential gaps are identified, we work to remedy them. We report the results of
our review of whether employees are receiving adequate wages in accordance with the ESRSs in the
“Metrics” section (see page 288).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 282
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Skill development, training and further education
At BASF, we consider learning and development to be key success factors in retaining and improving the
required skills and expertise of employees. In this way, we also want to counter the risks associated with
insufficient skill development and employee turnover in the context of demographic change (see
page 271). Our skill development actions are based on the principle of nondiscrimination (see page 275).
We monitor the effectiveness of our actions by assessing employee engagement as part of the annual
Employee Voices survey (see page 280 and 286).
The previous BASF competencies and CORE Leadership Values were replaced by Winning Behaviors as
part of our “Winning Ways” strategy. These are applicable to all employees and leaders and are being
phased into employee development. The development of employees is always planned together with
their leader. A central element for this is regular feedback discussed in annual employee dialogs (see
page 282) and continuous meaningful conversations throughout the year. Both actions are carried
out globally to establish a foundation for open communication between leader and employee as well as
for further development. Employees and their leader conduct continuous meaningful conversations to
reflect on performance and behavior, discuss expectations and can also agree on development
objectives and individual learning needs. Learning goals should be adapted to the specific job
requirements and the employee’s development needs. Learning can take place in various formats and
locations.
BASF provides global access to a wide range of training offers on various learning platforms to support
employees in expanding their skills flexibly and thus acquire additional competencies. Furthermore,
numerous local and specialized academies offer training within the operating divisions and service units.
For example, the Data & AI Academy expanded its offer in 2024 to help our employees develop a basic
understanding of data and artificial intelligence (AI) and utilize it in work processes.
The annual talent discussions held in BASF’s divisions are another steering element in the development
of our employees. In these workshops, the development potential and goals of employees in the
respective unit are discussed and possible development steps are defined. The main focal point is the
development of potential leaders and employees who qualify for positions in other operating divisions.
To support employees in the context of demographic change and rapidly shifting skill requirements, we
piloted the Skill Transformation Project in selected divisions of the company in Germany in 2024. The
focus was on promoting current skills and preparing employees for the rapidly changing demands of the
market. A key project result was a skill framework which will enable necessary skill profiles to be
identified within the company. This gives leaders valuable insight into the skills in their teams and allows
them to identify any possible skill gaps. With the help of AI, this transparency enables us to match
personalized training options based on the individual needs of employees and teams. In a follow-up
project, we are now reviewing how to integrate the findings into our standard processes globally.
Leaders are tasked with creating a suitable environment for the development of their employees,
supporting them and taking their individual situations into account. BASF therefore employs a holistic
leadership development approach to support leaders in their tasks in the best possible way. To identify
and further develop leadership talents early, BASF also employs potential assessments. In this way, we
can help identify qualified potential leadership candidates and offer them concrete development options.
To support new leaders from the beginning of their leadership career, the Leadership Essentials standard
was created in 2024, a new consistent standard for leadership skills which will serve as a basis for
training offerings. Aimed particularly at senior executives and talents identified as potential leaders, we
offered inspiration and learning opportunities in 2024 under the theme “Activate and Connect for
Growth” on topics such as positive and inspiring leadership, coping with change, and energy and top
performance.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 283
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Regular feedback plays an important role in the individual development of leaders. In addition to the
continuous dialog, the majority of our leaders with disciplinary responsibility received feedback on their
leadership behavior and development recommendations as part of the FEEDback&forward global
leadership survey in 2024 (see page 280).
Recruitment of skilled employees
Offering an attractive and compelling comprehensive package for employees is increasingly important
given the strong global competition for the best qualified employees and leaders. For this reason, we
have various ongoing processes and projects in place. For example, we revised our global
comprehensive offering in 2024 to better meet the needs of employees and BASF job applicants.
We are constantly working to improve talent recruitment worldwide. To that end, we use digital platforms
such as our country-specific career websites, global and regional social networks as well as a mix of on-
site and digital events. Our external HR marketing and talent acquisition processes focus on the target
groups discussed above (see page 277). We are also developing our global employer brand, aimed at
consistently presenting ourselves as an attractive employer both inside and outside the company. Our
actions to recruit skilled employees are based on the principle of nondiscrimination (see page 275).
To improve our recruitment process, we completed the rollout of a new digital tool worldwide in 2024,
thereby establishing a global talent acquisition process. The new system offers improved user-
friendliness and accelerates the hiring processes. Interview guidelines support a skill-based and fair
recruitment process. AI features enable people applying to BASF to match their CV with all job offers.
Additionally, the global tool gives all employees a transparent view of current vacancies so as to foster
their development through a job change.
Training skilled employees is a central investment in BASF’s competitiveness. This is why we have been
counting on our own junior skilled employees for many years and are particularly committed to our
apprenticeship programs in Germany. In cooperation with our partners, we support apprentices on an
individual basis, preparing them for the modern working world. We train them in future-oriented
technologies, working procedures and methods. We also prepare them for the challenges of lifelong and
independent learning. To continue filling our apprenticeship positions with qualified candidates in the
future, we provide school students in Germany with insight into the various apprenticeship options at
BASF during their career orientation phase. We offer a dual vocational training model at numerous sites.
At production sites in the United States, for example, we provide up to three years of dual-track
vocational training under the North American Apprenticeship Development Program (NAADP). This
program involves local colleges.
To combat the shortage of skilled employees in production and technical areas in Ludwigshafen,
Germany, we increasingly used social media channels to alert qualified specialists to career prospects at
BASF in 2024. We also cooperated with the German employment agency, for example, to target skilled
employees at informational events and to recruit suitable candidates for BASF who are currently available
on the labor market or will be in the near future.
To ensure the availability of skilled employees and safeguard existing know-how, we offer leaders at
BASF SE analyses of the demographic situation for various company job profiles. On this basis, we also
provide specific measures for succession planning, knowledge sharing and moderated knowledge
transfer.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 284
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Occupational safety and health
To prevent potential negative effects on the health and safety of our employees and prevent work-related
injuries, for example, we require and promote risk-conscious and safe working practices, learning from
incidents and the ongoing exchange of experiences. We are constantly refining and enhancing our global
requirements and training offers. In addition to the legally required training, BASF requires new
employees worldwide to complete mandatory health and safety training. Employees at our production
sites also receive regular training on how to handle chemicals safely and how to use personal protective
equipment correctly.
We do everything we can to prevent injuries and use our findings to take appropriate measures to
prevent these from happening again, as far as possible. These include regular campaigns and
informational events to raise employees’ awareness. For several years now, we have been using Safety
Moments, a short illustrative presentation on the topic of safety which can be shown routinely at the
beginning of meetings or events. In 2024, use of this format increased as part of the EHS Culture of
Excellence initiative in North America. This focused, for example, on competency building in EHS.
Through our emergency preparedness and emergency response measures, we want to be as prepared
as possible for crisis situations at global, regional and local level – from process safety incidents to
product leakages and emergencies. Our emergency and crisis management focuses on protecting
people and the environment as well as ensuring the safety of our plants (see page 213). Through our
Responsible Care audits (see page 278), we regularly monitor compliance with our guidelines and the
effectiveness of our occupational safety measures. BASF thoroughly investigates incidents, analyzes the
root causes, and uses the findings to develop appropriate measures and achieve ongoing improvements.
If heightened risks for employees are identified, we implement the appropriate corrective actions.
Leaders play an important role in modeling the safety culture. Those in production bear particular
responsibility for such topics and regularly receive specific training to be able to fulfill their
responsibilities. Newly appointed senior executives must attend a one-time mandatory dialog on health,
safety and environmental protection with the head of the Corporate Center’s Corporate Environmental
Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit.
Our global network enables the continuous exchange of information and findings within the
BASF Group. To further improve our processes and methods, we analyze accidents and potential
incidents and share knowledge and best practices within our global network of experts and as part of
safety initiatives. We also seek dialog with government institutions and are actively involved in external
occupational safety initiatives and networks around the world led, for example, by the European
Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) or national associations such as the German Chemical Industry
Association and the American Chemistry Council.
»For more information on process safety, see basf.com/process_safety
»For more information on occupational safety, see basf.com/occupational_safety
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 285
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
BASF’s global corporate health management serves to promote and maintain the long-term and holistic
health and performance of our employees. BASF health checks form the basis of our global health
promotion program and are offered to employees at regular intervals. These checkups include a
thorough assessment of employees’ current health status and personal risk factors. We also
systematically raise employee awareness of health topics with offerings tailored to specific target groups.
In 2024, we chose a decentralized approach in which the regions and sites could focus on locally
relevant health aspects. For example, the focus in Europe was on promoting mental health. The Mental
Health Alliance, consisting of various specialist units in the region, launched an employee learning and
information platform on this topic. Another key focus in 2024 was on influenza prevention. BASF
employees had the opportunity to be vaccinated against the seasonal flu at various sites around the
world. At the Ludwigshafen site in Germany, for example, more than 3,700 employees participated in the
influenza vaccination campaign.
»For more information on occupational health and health management, see basf.com/health
Secure employment
BASF introduced a plan for our company’s long-term success in 2024, with the “Winning Ways” strategy
(see page 18). When our business grows, we lay the foundation for job security and create added value
for our investors.
Regularly surveying the entire workforce (see page 280) helps us learn whether employees perceive their
jobs as secure. Feedback from this survey and from our dialog with employee representatives gives us
specific indications as to where we can make further improvements in this context (see page 279 and
286). Employees have various internal communication channels to stay informed, such as company
assemblies, and find necessary information about their employment, for example, in our intranet.
Global targets
S1-5
We consider employee engagement to be a decisive indicator of the success of our measures. We use
surveys and pulse checks as feedback instruments to actively involve employees in shaping their
working environment. We measure employee engagement as part of the regular Employee Voices5
survey using five central questions. The aim of our engagement index is to understand whether
employees enjoy and are proud of working here, whether they recommend BASF as an employer, and
whether they would stay with us if they received a similar offer from another company. These questions
help us identify potential for improvement. They were developed by BASF based on an analysis of
scientific findings and benchmarks. In accordance with employee codetermination rights, we engage
with employee representatives in the course of approving the Employee Voices questionnaire regarding
the design of the engagement index.
We set ourselves the target of achieving employee engagement of more than 80%. More than 90,000
employees worldwide participated in the survey in 2024 (participation rate: 78%). The survey showed
global engagement of 79%, which is stable compared with the previous year (2023: 79%). Our aim is to
get this score back to the defined target of higher than 80%. We identified the target based on an
external benchmarking. Based on a correlation analysis, the main factors influencing engagement are
identified using the survey results and then closely examined to determine possible measures. This
analysis is carried out at global and decentralized levels. Measures are implemented locally to reflect the
different needs and conditions of our organization. The results analysis is taken into account for strategic
decisions. For example, the survey conducted in 2024 indicated that processes are perceived to be too
complex or bureaucratic. This was one reason why we focused on simplifying processes and
5 The scope of employees surveyed goes beyond the scope of consolidation. However, there are some exceptions for companies that represent joint ventures and joint
operations, as well as companies held for sale.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 286
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
empowering employees with greater accountability in our new strategy. For more information on these
results and how they are communicated, see page 280 onward.
We review the positive impact of adequate wages on a regular basis through specific actions, which are
described on page 282 onward. We are countering the potential negative impact on employees of
increased demands in terms of skills and demographic change as well as our risks associated with
secure employment, insufficient skill development and skilled employee recruitment with concrete
measures (see page 283, 284 and 286). We have not set ourselves specific targets for all material
impacts and risks to our company’s workforce. For more information on how we measure the
effectiveness of actions implemented, see the section on Actions (see page 281).
We set ourselves concrete global targets regarding the potential negative impacts on the health and
safety of all employees, which we measure annually:
In 2023, we adjusted our occupational safety target and the corresponding reporting in accordance with
a Group-wide definition to focus on the number of worldwide High Severity Work Process Related
Injuries (HSI). We committed to a global HSI rate of ≤0.05 per 200,000 working hours6 by 2030. In 2024,
it was 0.02 (2023: 0.03 – our baseline). We therefore achieved our target. BASF developed this target
based on recommendations of key stakeholders like the ICCA, CEFIC and the German Chemical Industry
Association. For more information on data collection for HSI, please see General Disclosures on
page 150. Our target is based on the assumption that the data on work-related injuries is complete and
correct. We consider potential delays in the reporting and recording of injuries to be a limiting factor. To
achieve our targets regarding work-related incidents, we regularly review compliance with our
occupational safety requirements and legal guidelines through Responsible Care audits. We thoroughly
document and analyze incidents as well as their causes and consequences at on a global scale to learn
from them. We consider the systematic hazard assessments and the risk minimization measures derived
from them to be an important prevention tool.
We measure our performance in occupational health using the Health Performance Index (HPI). HPI is a
key performance indicator that defines and measures our progress in promoting and maintaining the
health, well-being and performance of all employees. It comprises the valuation of five equally weighted
components: recognized occupational diseases, medical emergency preparedness, first aid, preventive
medicine and health promotion. Each component accounts for 20% of the overall result. A maximum
total value of 1.0 is therefore possible. Global HPI is calculated based on HPIs of the individual sites.
Local HPI used in the calculation is weighted according to the relative share of employees in global
headcount. We aim to achieve a global value of more than 0.9 every year. The baseline from 2018 is
0.96. With an HPI of 0.97, we once again achieved this in 2024 (2023: 0.96).
For more information on data collection for HPI, see General Disclosures on page 150. The objective of
the HPI was developed by BASF based on the requirements of the Global Reporting InitiativeTM (GRI) and
was first established in 2011. The HPI was adjusted in 2018 and has been used as a global key
performance indicator ever since. The HPI target is regularly reviewed and adjusted to ensure continuous
improvements. The review also takes place as part of the regular Responsible Care audits in the area of
occupational health. The audit report includes a description of the situation and, if necessary, specific
recommendations along with deadlines for their implementation. Guidance and support for implementing
the recommendations can also be provided if needed. Monitoring the HPI involves multiple steps and
methods to ensure that health measures are effective and the defined targets are met. This also includes
the analysis of data on incidents and illnesses as well as implementation of new risk minimization
measures. We also consult BASF’s global network of physicians when determining this target.
6 This includes hours worked by BASF employees, agency workers and contractors. We are reviewing the extent to which we can take account of the definition of the
company’s workforce according to ESRSs in the future.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 287
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The HPI is based on various central assumptions, such as the recorded health data being representative
of the entire workforce. Participation in health programs is comprehensive but voluntary. A further
assumption is that the effects of the health programs on the well-being of employees are both
measurable and significant.
The index also has certain limitations which must be taken into account when results are interpreted. For
example, not all aspects of employees’ health can be comprehensively captured, particularly those that
are difficult to measure such as mental illness. In addition, external factors such as economic conditions,
social changes or global pandemics, can influence results without being directly attributable to the
company’s health measures.
BASF takes various measures to improve performance in occupational safety and health based on the
results of the HSI and HPI. For example, an analysis of the HPI helps us to identify that well-trained first
aiders can reduce the impact of incidents. We therefore require that employees complete first aid
courses on a regular basis to ensure quick and effective responses in case of emergencies. We have
concluded from the results of our HSI that safety campaigns and training are effective in raising
awareness for occupational safety and promoting safety-conscious behavior.
Metrics
S1-6
The data described here is from our annual data validation and quality assurance process for external
reporting. The total number of employees as of December 31, 2024, was 111,822. This marks a decline
compared with the 111,991 employees as of December 31, 2023. The decline was primarily due to
retirements and departures due to dormant employment as well as measures in connection with the cost
savings program focusing on Europe. Staff increases in Asia Pacific, especially for the new Verbund site
in Zhanjiang, China, had an offsetting effect.
Expenses for wages and salaries, social security contributions and assistance, as well as for pensions in
2024 are reported in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements from page 435 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 288
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The following table illustrates the regional distribution of employees. We employed at least 10% of the
BASF workforce in each of the three countries Germany, China and the United States.
Employeesa in countries and regions as of December 31, 2024
South
America,
Africa and
Regions Europe Asia Pacific North America Middle East Total
Employees 66,726 21,971 15,969 7,156 111,822
Countries that make up at least 10% of
the total number of employees Germany China United States
Employees 50,602 12,687 13,304
a Recorded as head count
Employee dataa by gender as of December 31, 2024
Gender Number of employees
Male 81,572
Female 30,250
Not disclosed 0
Totalb 111,822
a Recorded as head count
b Other: We currently do not record a third gender globally. We will regularly review the relevance of this category in external reporting.
We use the following definitions globally for employees of our company:
– Permanent employees have an active contract for an unlimited period of time.
– Temporary employees are employed by BASF on the basis of an individual agreement with a
temporary employment contract.
– Apprentices are employees who have temporary contract with BASF. In accordance with this contract,
apprentices receive in-company vocational training as part of an accredited education program.
Employeesa by contract type and gender as of December 31, 2024
Male Female Not disclosedb Total
Employees (total) 81,572 30,250 0 111,822
Permanent employees 78,081 28,695 0 106,776
Temporary employees 1,183 922 0 2,105
Apprentices 2,308 633 0 2,941
Non-guaranteed hours employees 0 0 0 0
a Recorded as head count
b Other: We currently do not record a third gender globally. We will regularly review the relevance of this category in external reporting.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 289
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Employee turnovera 2024
Average number of employees, BASF Group 111,744
Employees who had left the company as of December 31, 2024 7,996
Turnover rate as a percentage 7.2%
a Recorded as head count
The rate of employee turnover according to the ESRS definition – the proportion of employees who left
the company in 2024 – amounted to 7.2% globally.
S1-10
We reviewed adequate wages at BASF Group companies in accordance with the ESRS definition. The
review included the respective base salary and fixed guaranteed additional payments in the business
year. Calculation of adequate wages in accordance with ESRS is not based on an annual target value.
For 2024, the review concluded that all employees receive adequate wages. Furthermore, BASF regularly
reviews whether our employees around the world receive a wage that affords them and their families an
adequate standard of living under the respective conditions (living wage).
S1-14
Occupational safety and health metrics as of December 31, 2024
Employees
Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injuries and work-related ill health 0
Rate of recordable work-related injuriesa, b 3.78
Number of recordableb work-related injuries 753
Number of cases of recordableb work-related ill health 33
Number of days lost to work-related injuries 6,223
a Per 1,000,000 working hours
b Recordable includes all work-related injuries and cases of work-related ill health recorded in the system for BASF.
Safety is our top priority. Despite our considerable efforts, there were two fatal work-related injuries in
2024: A contractor was fatally injured on the major construction site in Zhanjiang, China. Another
contractor was involved in a fatal traffic accident during a business trip in Vietnam.
S1-17
In 2024, 79 cases of discrimination were reported to us. These were related to gender, age, nationality,
disability, religion or worldview, sexual orientation or ethnicity; were racist in origin or related to other
relevant forms of discrimination based on characteristics protected by law, including harassment as a
specific form of discrimination.
In addition, 225 complaints related to the social factors or aspects mentioned in ESRS S1, paragraph 2,
including human rights,7 were submitted via the BASF compliance grievance mechanism in the reporting
period.
7 These social factors or aspects include working conditions, equal treatment and opportunities as well as other work-related rights. For more information, see ESRS S1,
paragraph 2.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 290
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In 2024, there were no fines, sanctions or compensation payments in connection with these incidents.
In 2024, we did not identify any severe human rights-related incidents in relation to workers in our
company.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 291
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
S2 Workers in the Value Chain
ESRS S2
As an international company, we are active in a variety of different supply
chains, businesses and companies, and have business relationships with
partners around the world. This means we have links to a large number of
people who contribute to our business activities. We accept the resulting
obligations and opportunities along the value chain and strive for
sustainable value creation. Together with our partners, we are working to
enhance compliance with human rights, to improve labor and social
standards, and to minimize risks. Another important matter for us is
socially just climate transformation.
ESRS 2 SBM-2 ESRS 2 SBM-3 ESRS 2 IRO-1
Good collaboration with our partners is closely linked to our business success. It is decisive for ensuring
resilient, responsible supply chains and for the production of high-quality, safe and more sustainable
solutions and products. We therefore attach considerable importance to the interests and viewpoints of
workers in the value chain during our collaboration with our partners. We aim to minimize negative
impacts on workers in the value chain through our engagement and to have a positive impact. By
adopting our due diligence approach (see page 323) and establishing standards and initiatives in our
work with our partners (see page 295), we demonstrate commitment to the rights of the workers in our
value chain and to good and safe working conditions and promote worker training.
The double materiality assessment that we conducted in 2024 (see page 167) resulted in two material
impacts on workers in our upstream supply chain (see the table “Results of the double materiality
assessment”).
Results of the double materiality assessment for S2 Workers in the Value Chain
Placement in the
Impact Evaluation value chain Description
Increased health and occupational Negative, Upstream value chain In the production of chemical raw materials, there
safety risks when handling chemical potential are increased health and safety risks in our
raw materials upstream value chain, particularly if necessary
safety measures are not complied with. This is a
common problem primarily in countries whose
national laws do not include any, or low,
requirements with respect to labor protection
standards.
Increased potential risk of child Negative, Upstream value chain Child labor is a particular risk in critical and less
labor in specific supply chains potential transparent supply chains and in countries with
little state control and low incomes. This applies,
for example, to our upstream supply chains for
renewable raw materials, minerals and seeds.
Smallholder farms and artisanal mines are
particularly affected.
The impacts identified are a common problem primarily in countries whose national law has no or low
requirements for labor protection standards and in which there is little state control and low incomes. All
workers in our upstream supply chain were included in the double materiality assessment. We adopt a
risk-based approach when examining the risks for workers in our upstream value chain (see page 295).
Workers at joint venture partners were not included in our risk analysis. However, we aim to include them
going forward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 292
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In line with the results of our materiality assessment, we identified the following groups as being
particularly exposed to the impacts of our business activities: mine workers in the battery value chain,
workers in seed production, field workers and workers in chemical plants with high hazard potential. A
lack of transparency regarding working conditions at subcontractors represents an increased risk in
general. Our risk analysis focuses primarily on countries with high ESG risks such as China, India,
Malaysia, Brazil or Thailand, with India demonstrating a particularly high risk of child labor. Forced labor
was not considered to be material in our double materiality assessment.
We examine workers in our downstream value chain during our due diligence reviews of business
partners (for more information, see page 323), but do not consider them to be a material target group in
relation to impacts, risks and opportunities. We did not identify any material financial opportunities and
risks for BASF in relation to workers in the value chain. We systematically record opportunities and risks
as part of our general opportunity and risk management (for additional information, see page 87 onward).
Strategy and governance
S2-1
For explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope, accountability, impacts in the value
chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof, see General
Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 151. Among other things, these include the BASF
Code of Conduct, the BASF Policy Statement on Human Rights, our risk-based sustainability
management for procurement as part of our procurement requirement, the Supplier Code of Conduct
and our principles for the responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials.
A core element of our sustainability strategy is to respect and protect the dignity, rights, health and
safety of individuals, both within and outside our own workforce. We view sustainability topics as
holistically as possible, including the matters that have been identified as material – health and
occupational safety and potential child labor. We aim to act as a role model for responsible and safe
behavior along our entire value chain, and to work together in a spirit of trust with partners such as
suppliers, service providers, contractors, joint venture partners and customers. We adopt a holistic
strategic approach that includes all workers in our supply chains; however, the focus in our reporting is
on the upstream value chain, in line with the results of our materiality assessment.
We are committed to complying with applicable laws and international standards. In this context, we are
committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations (U.N.), both U.N. Human
Rights Covenants, the Core Labor Standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Tripartite
Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, the Ten Principles of the
U.N. Global Compact, the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises on Responsible Business Conduct and the Responsible Care® Global
Charter from the International Council of Chemical Associations. We also expect our partners to comply
with the law and with standards, including the regulations governing health and occupational safety and
child labor. Equally, we expect them to endeavor to enforce these standards at their own partners and
take steps to ensure that they comply with this responsibility. We rely here on a systematic, integrated,
risk-based approach and established monitoring and management systems.
For us, implementing supply chain-specific due diligence processes is a continuous and comprehensive
task. We have embedded our responsibility for human rights and thus also for ensuring safe working
standards and preventing potential child labor in BASF’s Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of
Conduct and have set it out in more detail in our Policy Statement on Human Rights. All employees and
leaders are responsible for ensuring that we act in accordance with our Code of Conduct and our Policy
Statement on Human Rights.
»For more information on the BASF Code of Conduct, see basf.com/code-of-conduct
»For more information on the Supplier Code of Conduct, see basf.com/suppliers
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 293
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
»For more information on our Policy Statement on Human Rights, see basf.com/policy-statement-human-rights
Human rights is an important topic for us and this is reflected in our organizational structures. The head
of our Legal and Compliance organization also acts as Chief Human Rights Officer, who oversees the
overarching risk management system with regard to human rights issues, especially in relation to due
diligence under the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG), and reports regularly to the Board of
Executive Directors and the Audit Committee on this. In addition, we have integrated sustainability-
related assessments in our governance and decision-making processes, for example in relation to
investment, acquisition and divestiture projects.
The overarching governance of human rights due diligence at BASF lies with the Compliance
organization. In addition, a number of specialist units are responsible for steering specific human rights
topics. As part of our Human Rights Expert Working Group, which is managed by the Compliance
Department, we work on an interdisciplinary basis on the holistic assessment and further development of
our approach to human rights due diligence. This allows us to ensure that we approach our human rights
responsibility holistically and that we can continually improve our performance. The Expert Working
Group comprises employees from the Corporate Center units Corporate Compliance, Corporate Legal,
Corporate Human Resources, Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality, Corporate
Strategy & Sustainability and Corporate Communications & Government Relations, along with Global
Procurement, Security and our operating divisions. Like Corporate Compliance, the aforementioned
specialist units have their own global organization, which they train and which supports them in
implementing the due diligence processes and measures worldwide in the countries in which BASF is
active. The Expert Working Group provides support and advice in challenging and critical situations, on
the development of internal processes and on the creation of information and training offerings, among
other things. Relevant aspects of human rights topics are also part of the global qualification guidelines
for security personnel and are incorporated into the standard agreements with contractors.
We use our Human Rights Advisory Council to access additional external human rights expertise. The
council, which comprises independent international human rights experts, meets regularly. The trust-
based dialog on human rights challenges helps us to better understand different perspectives and to
deal even more openly with critical situations. The meetings held in 2024 were attended by
representatives from Corporate Compliance, Corporate Strategy & Sustainability and Global
Procurement, plus other experts from the operating divisions. The council provided external perspectives
on our stakeholder engagement, on challenges in critical supply chains and on how to deal with
situations posing dilemmas.
»For more information on the Human Rights Advisory Council, see basf.com/human-rights-council
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 294
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our Procurement organization has set out guidelines for our upstream supply chain in a global, risk-
based management system; these specify how we implement our due diligence processes. We have
defined the standards for this in a global requirement. We continuously enhance our structures and
processes so as to reflect changes in the general situation. Procurement requirements and targets are
set centrally and are binding for all employees with procurement responsibility worldwide. We endeavor
to ensure compliance with these requirements using a multistage control process. In this process,
minimum standards drawn up by the Corporate Center units are used to support and monitor the
individual risk management systems of our business units during implementation. The Corporate Audit
unit, as the third instance involved, monitors the effectiveness and compliance of the risk management.
Our expectations of our suppliers are laid down in the global Supplier Code of Conduct. Topics covered
by the Code of Conduct include compliance with human rights, the exclusion of child labor, forced labor
and human trafficking, safeguarding labor and social standards, and antidiscrimination and
anticorruption guidelines. The Code is regularly updated. It is available in the most relevant languages for
our suppliers and integrated into electronic ordering systems and purchasing conditions across the
Group.
We want to help shape the transformation toward climate neutrality in a socially just way (just transition).
This is why we also focus closely on the processes used for sourcing renewable raw materials. Alongside
positive environmental effects such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions, these can also have negative
effects on social factors, depending on the raw materials. We include this point in our risk analyses and
have drawn up specific principles for the responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials. These
principles also refer to the ILO’s principles and its Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at
Work, which in turn include the topics of child labor and health and safety at work. At the same time, we
seek dialog with our stakeholders to identify conflicting goals (see page 298).
»For more information on our principles for the responsible sourcing of renewable raw materials, see
basf.com/en/responsible-renewables-sourcing
As part of our new “Winning Ways” strategy, we are also focusing on our BASF Renewable Carbon unit
within Global Procurement, which manages the sourcing of renewable raw materials and biomass for
BASF’s operating divisions. This unit has access both to BASF’s existing expertise and to a wide range
of cooperation models with suppliers, customers and partners.
Actions
We are implementing concrete actions to mitigate negative impacts and risks and at the same time
facilitate opportunities related to workers in the upstream value chain. These aim at promoting open
dialog, assessing and growing our suppliers, and improving conditions for their workers by taking
preventive measures and through local initiatives. Our management processes come into play in the case
of any specific incidents.
We rely primarily on the following actions:
– Engagement with workers via forums for dialog, advisory bodies and workshops
– Use of uniform global grievance mechanisms to channel the concerns and needs of workers in the
value chain
– Supplier ESG risk analysis
– Risk-based evaluation of suppliers through online assessments (EcoVadis) or on-site audits, for
example as part of the chemical industry’s Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative
– Implementation of corrective measures at suppliers
– Support for suppliers in growing sustainability-related skills in the form of appropriate training
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 295
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Engagement and grievance mechanisms
S2-2
We include the viewpoints of our partners and their workers in our decisions and actions using dialog
forums and advisory bodies such as the Human Rights Advisory Council, which we established together
with external experts, and the equivalent body for nature and biodiversity topics, our Nature Advisory
Council (for more information, see page 309). The two councils maintain a regular dialog and meet up to
three times a year. Since 2023, we have also used the Sustainability Lab, a new stakeholder engagement
format in which around 100 external and internal experts discuss specific questions relating to
sustainable development from a variety of perspectives (for more information, see page 166). We plan to
continue using the Sustainability Lab format on an event-driven basis in the future.
Moreover, we also seek direct dialog with our suppliers. In Brazil, for example, we held a series of
workshops on sustainability-related topics in 2024. Among other things, members of the TfS initiative
and supplier employees were invited to discuss responsibilities, opportunities and challenges in the areas
of human rights and labor standards. Further webinars with suppliers are planned for 2025.
One of the ways in which we obtain direct insights into the perspectives of particularly vulnerable groups
is through our supplier diversity programs with supplier employees from North and South America. In
addition, we use specific dialog formats in higher-risk business areas such as our seed business or when
procuring castor oil.
The relevant Corporate Center units such as Sustainability Relations and Corporate Compliance, along
with Global Procurement and the specialized units in our operating divisions are responsible for ensuring
appropriate, regular dialog (for additional information on the allocation of responsibilities for the
Corporate Center units within the Board of Executive Directors, see page 141).
We assess the effectiveness of our collaboration with workers in the value chain, for example in the
course of our supplier assessments and follow-up evaluations (see page 297 onward). We also assess
the progress made with the actions we have taken, and with our initiatives and projects.
S2-3
We promote a culture in which critical issues and concerns can always be raised openly. To do this, we
offer uniform grievance mechanisms at the operational level throughout the world. The key tool is our
Compliance Hotline. Information on how the issues raised and addressed are tracked and monitored can
be found on page 321. The compliance hotline offers a way of reporting concerns, risks and violations
occurring in BASF’s activities or in the value chain in confidence and also anonymously. This also
includes potential concerns in relation to health and occupational safety as well as child labor. The
hotline is available both to BASF employees and to all external stakeholders, and in particular to workers
in our supply chains. In addition, complaints can be submitted to external entities such as the website
maintained by the German Federal Office for Economic Affairs and Export Control (BAFA).
Our grievance mechanism is set out in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is made available to our
partners and service providers via our electronic ordering system as part of our purchasing conditions.
»Our Compliance Hotline can be reached at ethicspoint.basf.com/en.
»The BAFA complaints form is available at bafa.de/EN/Supply_Chain_Act/Submit_Complaint/submit_complaint_node.html.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 296
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Assessing and growing our suppliers
S2-4
Suppliers are selected, and both new and existing suppliers are evaluated, on the basis both of
economic criteria and in particular of ESG standards. This means that selecting, assessing and auditing
suppliers are key elements of our sustainable supply chain and risk management activities, intending to
ensure that suppliers comply with the laws, regulations and standards in force, and especially with those
relating to our material topics of potential child labor and EHS standards. Due to the large number of
suppliers, they are evaluated based on risk. We take both country- and industry-specific risks and our
ability to exert an influence into account. Supplier assessment is mainly performed as part of the TfS
initiative, of which BASF is a founding member. TfS performs online assessments via the EcoVadis rating
agency or conducts on-site audits using TfS-approved auditors. A total of 118 raw materials supplier
sites were audited in relation to sustainability standards on our behalf in 2024. We received EcoVadis
sustainability assessments for 328 suppliers with potential sustainability risks. We also take into account
other certification systems and external audits, such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, when
assessing our suppliers. Depending on business requirements, we perform our own Responsible Care
audits at selected contract manufacturers if material risks have been identified with respect to
occupational safety, health and environmental protection. We use targeted checks on suppliers in higher-
risk countries to prevent the risk of potential child labor; an example here is our seed business supply
chain in India.
Our employees in procurement are supported in this process by a dedicated procurement-specific
sustainability team. This consists of a core team plus a supplementary sustainability network comprising
employees from the regions and procurement clusters concerned. In addition, we have access to a
global audit team that audits EHS topics at contract manufacturers.
We carefully analyze the results of our assessments, which are summarized in audit reports or
scorecards together with concrete plans for corrective actions, and document them in a central
database. Where performance is insufficient, we contact the suppliers and request that they implement
improvements. We review our suppliers’ progress according to a defined time frame based on the
sustainability risk identified, or after three years at the latest. Over the past few years, we have identified
some need for adjustment at our suppliers with respect to environmental, social and governance
standards. Examples include deviations from health and occupational safety measures and labor law
requirements. In follow-up audits performed in 2024, we identified improvements in these areas.
We support our suppliers in developing measures for improvement. The webinars held by TfS in various
languages on sustainability and the implementation of corrective measures are an important part of
supplier development. All in all, these were attended by a total of 990 employees of suppliers in 2024. In
addition, the TfS Academy online learning platform is aimed at procurement staff and suppliers. It covers
the entire spectrum of ESG topics, including child labor and health and occupational safety. There are
currently over 300 courses available in 11 different languages. We also continued our partnership with
East China University of Science and Technology in Shanghai, China, in 2024. A total of 92 employees
from 68 Chinese suppliers received further training on ESG topics including child labor and health and
occupational safety.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 297
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Preventive actions and local initiatives
The examples given below are locally organized activities, projects and initiatives. They have not been
assigned to any centrally managed action plan. Rather, they are aimed at achieving continuous
optimization and further development. This goes hand in hand with the BASF approach to sustainability
steering (see page 152).
We are aware of the challenges in specific supply chains. For example, in 2024, we continued our
proactive work with our upstream supply chains, where we usually have no direct contractual
relationships, less transparency and less influence. We are working together with partners and civil
society and are active in cross-sector initiatives. Projects often start on the ground to build specific local
expertise regarding sustainable and responsible supply chains. In addition to making environmental
improvements, our particular objective is to promote social aspects such as safe working conditions,
adequate wages, access to healthcare systems and opportunities for upskilling/reskilling. We discuss the
appropriateness of measures on a case-by-case basis with relevant stakeholders such as NGOs and
government representatives. We also discuss our plans in our external dialog forums, in the Human
Rights Advisory Council and in the Nature Advisory Council. We measure the effectiveness of specific
projects using progress reports on, and studies of, for example, developments in the areas of income
and living conditions and the establishment of policy frameworks and regulations.
Seeds
In 2022, BASF, Syngenta and Arisa joined forces to set up a multistakeholder initiative in the vegetable
seeds business in India. Called Wage Improvements in Seed Hybrids (WISH), the initiative addresses
combating child labor and paying fair wages in the vegetable seeds sector in the Indian federal states of
Karnataka and Maharashtra. The first phase of the project consisted of a survey of more than
4,100 households, in which roughly 6,900 children, 200 farmers, 400 workers and other stakeholders
took part, identified focus topics for improving conditions on the ground. In the second phase of the
project, which has been running since 2023, the partners are now using a variety of instruments to
address these areas. Examples include training and upskilling/reskilling, networking, stakeholder
integration (since 2024), advocacy efforts at local and international level, digital documentation and the
dissemination of best practices. BASF, Syngenta and Arisa aim to maximize the positive impact of the
project by also engaging in a dialog with other national and international companies in the seeds
business. Since the beginning of 2024, external NGOs have been providing training and upskilling/
reskilling for more than 390 farmers in 28 villages in the project area; this involves a variety of stakeholder
groups including 2,100 workers. The goal of the project is to achieve tangible improvements with respect
to increasing wages and avoiding child labor in the vegetable seeds business by the end of 2025.
Renewable raw materials
Palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives are some of our most important renewable raw materials;
these are described in detail under E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems (see pages 240 and 241). Based on
our Supplier Code of Conduct, we have outlined our expectations of suppliers in the palm-based value
chain in an additional sourcing policy (BASF Palm Sourcing Policy). These address not only certification
standards, traceability and environmental aspects, but also the observance of employee rights and the
rights of Indigenous peoples as well as the inclusion of smallholder structures.
»For more information on our voluntary commitment to palm oil products and the Responsible Sourcing Report, see
basf.com/en/palm-dialog
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 298
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Another important raw material for BASF, albeit at a much smaller scale, is castor oil. We use castor oil to
manufacture products such as plastics and ingredients for paints and coatings, as well as products for
the cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries. We were a founding member of, and have been active
since 2016 in, the Sustainable Castor Initiative – Pragati, with the aim of establishing a certified
sustainable supply chain for castor oil in India. As part of Pragati, smallholders receive training, which is
based on a specially developed sustainability code, SuCCESS, on topics such as health, the safe use of
crop protection products to minimize occupational safety risks, and cultivation methods.
»For more information on sustainable castor oil, see basf.com/en/responsible-renewables-sourcing
Plants also form the basis of many other products in our portfolio for cosmetics. This applies, for
example, to our biopolymers and bioactives. Through resource-conserving sourcing practices, we aim to
preserve ecosystems and enable more sustainable management for the people whose livelihoods
depend on them. For example, we have been combining economic, environmental and social aspects
including improved, safe working conditions and access to medical care for several years now in our
holistic procurement initiatives for argan (Morocco), rambutan and galanga (both Vietnam). We have
consolidated our bioactives activities in our Responsibly Active program.
»For more information on the Responsibly Active program, see personal-care.basf.com/responsibly-active
Mineral raw materials
We have relationships with a large number of suppliers of mineral raw materials, which we use to
produce automotive and process catalysts or battery materials for electromobility, among other
products. We have implemented the EU’s Conflict Minerals Regulation, for example by carrying out a
compliance check for the import of conflict minerals in our ordering system. The regulation aims to
combat the financing of armed conflicts and human rights issues such as child labor and forced labor. It
also defines supply chain due diligence for tin, tantalum, tungsten and their ores as well as gold (3TG)
imported into the EU from conflict-affected and high-risk areas (CAHRAs).
»For more information on the BASF Conflict Minerals Report 2023, see basf.com/conflictmineralsreport
We also attach importance to certification, such as the LBMA certificate for gold, the LPPM certificate for
metals of the platinum group and the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process of the Responsible
Minerals Initiative. Furthermore, BASF is committed to responsible and sustainable global supply chains
for other mineral raw materials. These include cobalt, a key component in the production of battery
materials. We have organized our cobalt supply chain according to established sustainability
requirements such as the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals. Our
goal is to not purchase cobalt from artisanal mines as long as responsible labor, social and
environmental standards cannot be verified.
Together with BMW Group, Samsung SDI Co. Ltd., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Volkswagen AG, Stihl
AG & Co. KG and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Corporation for
International Cooperation, GIZ), we have been involved in the cross-industry Cobalt for Development
initiative since 2018. It is intended to improve working and living conditions for artisanal miners in the
Democratic Republic of Congo and to explore and implement opportunities for legalizing artisanal
mining. To achieve this, the initiative offers programs such as training on important environmental, social
and governance aspects of responsible mining practices. In the second phase, which started in the
spring of 2023, mining cooperatives continued to receive training on topics such as occupational safety
and environmental management. In addition to technical support in mapping and sampling the deposits,
joint strategies were developed together with stakeholders from the Congolese government to create a
legal basis for the miners to continue operating the mine.
»For more information on the Cobalt for Development project, see basf.com/cobalt-initiative
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 299
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The Global Battery Alliance (GBA), which was cofounded by BASF in 2017, is also relevant in
connection with battery materials. It has over 150 members and promotes dialog between businesses,
governments and civil society. The GBA develops the tools for steering a sustainable and responsible
circular economy for batteries – and aims to establish these by 2030. It acts as an nonpartisan platform
to develop widely accepted rules for comprehensive and standardized reporting of ESG topics. These
include environmental protection issues, child labor and human rights, among other things. The GBA
rules were used in two pilot projects in 2024 and should be ready from 2025 onwards for the future
Battery Passport, the digital battery identification document provisioned by the EU’s Batteries
Regulation.
»For more information on the Global Battery Alliance, see globalbattery.org
Another mineral raw material that BASF processes is mica.1 As a base for effect pigments, it is mainly
used in the production of coatings and seed coatings. As an active member of the Responsible Mica
Initiative (RMI), we advocate for the eradication of child labor and unacceptable working conditions,
specifically in India’s mica supply chain. The initiative is focusing on labor standards, strengthening local
communities and legal frameworks in the period up to the target year of 2030. As the RMI’s recent
progress report shows, activities in the relevant regions of India have already led to improved income and
living conditions. These include improved access to clean drinking water through the installation of
pumps and filtration systems and improved access to healthcare through doctors’ visits in villages and
enrollment in public health insurance plans.
»For more information on the Responsible Mica Initiative, see responsible-mica-initiative.com
Dealing with specific incidents
If we learn of irregularities or violations in the course of our audits or from other sources such as media
reports or our Compliance Hotline, we take them extremely seriously, react immediately and require our
partners and suppliers to implement corrective measures without undue delay and to stop the violations.
In the case of serious violations of the standards defined in our Supplier Code of Conduct or of
international principles, such as intolerable working conditions or child labor, we reserve the right to
impose commercial sanctions. These can go as far as termination of the business relationship. The same
applies to failure to correct violations, or for displaying patterns of noncompliance with these standards.
No direct business relationships were terminated in 2024.2 We are in close contact with our suppliers,
especially in higher-risk areas and regions, and monitor the implementation of relevant standards and
necessary measures for improvement.
For example, action plans have now been developed and implemented for the cases of infringements of
the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG) that were identified in 2023.
1 Mica is a group of minerals from the division of phyllosilicates with the same atomic structure. In colloquial language, mica minerals are referred to as mica.
2 We consider all direct suppliers of the BASF Group in the business year concerned to be Tier 1 suppliers. These are suppliers that provide us with raw materials, investment
goods, consumables and services. Suppliers can be natural persons, companies or legal persons under public law.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 300
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
No severe human rights issues or incidents related to workers connected to its upstream and
downstream value chains were reported to BASF in 2024 (for more information on the topic of S3
Affected Communities, see page 310).
We have advanced the negotiations to divest our shares in the two joint ventures in Korla, in the
northwestern Chinese province of Xinjiang, a process we initiated for strategic reasons at the end of
2023, and signed an agreement to divest our shares. Our external audit scheduled for March 2024 was
conducted as planned. It showed no current indications of severe incidents or infringements.
Global targets
S2-5
Our global corporate target of responsible procurement (for additional information, see page 31) aims to
holistically improve our suppliers’ sustainability performance: It covers both comprehensive sustainability
matters and the matters of health and occupational safety and potential child labor that are material for
the Workers in the Value Chain topic. BASF has not set itself a specific target for the Workers in the
Value Chain topic.
The supplier target was updated in the reporting year so as to advance sustainability in the supply chain
even more effectively, and to focus on suppliers with an increased risk in terms of sustainability: For the
time frame up to 2030, BASF is concentrating on improving sustainability performance of those suppliers
that generated inadequate results in evaluations. We are striving toward ensuring that annually, 80% of
suppliers who underwent a sustainability evaluation during the reporting period, and who had inadequate
results in a prior comparable evaluation, improve their sustainability performance. An improvement could
result, for example, from a positive development of the EcoVadis score or successful implementation of
corrective measures in a follow-up audit. In 2024, the figure was 76%. In order to achieve our target of
80% annually by 2030, we began establishing a tracking process involving specialists from the
compliance organization in 2024. They contact suppliers with inadequate results and monitor the
implementation of corrective measures.
For us, a supplier evaluation is valid for three years. We then carry out a new classification internally
using a risk assessment and derive appropriate follow-up measures based on this. The new global target
will be embedded in the targets set for employees with procurement responsibility.
In addition, we strive as a matter of principle to avoid child labor, negative impacts on occupational
safety and health protection as well as impacts on other sustainability-related topics. These requirements
are set out in a globally binding form in our Supplier Code of Conduct and are overseen using multistage,
risk-based monitoring systems. We are steering toward our suppliers complying with the requirements
set out in the Supplier Code of Conduct. We take action if we become aware of severe violations in the
areas of health and occupational safety or child labor. We contact the suppliers concerned, offer them
training and explicitly request that they implement corrective measures within a defined time frame. We
systematically track implementation, since we aim to achieve improvements in these areas. If we find that
infringements have not been remedied or minimized, we can impose commercial sanctions or even
terminate the contracts concerned.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 301
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Stakeholder expectations are continuously incorporated into possible objectives. We ensure this is the
case through regular meetings with external stakeholders. These are held as part of our strategic
stakeholder engagement as well as in meetings with investors (see page 163), in which we discuss the
sustainability topics material for BASF.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 302
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
S3 Affected Communities
ESRS S3
We aim to avoid negative impacts and increase positive impacts by acting
responsibly along the entire value chain. We seek dialog with communities
that may be affected by our business activities to work together to shape
the transformation toward climate neutrality in a socially just manner. We
also want to live up to our responsibility and pursue the objective of
empowering the communities around our sites worldwide.
ESRS 2 IRO-1 ESRS 2 SBM-2 ESRS 2 SBM-3
A core element of our sustainability strategy is to respect the dignity, rights, health and safety of
individuals, both within and outside our own workforce. For us, safe and responsible behavior throughout
the entire value chain is of paramount importance.
This also applies to communities that may be affected by our business activities. Here, we also include
activities in our upstream value chain if the raw materials sourced by us are produced or extracted under
sometimes challenging conditions. For example, the growth of plants purchased by us as renewable raw
materials may be associated with land degradation and a deterioration in local biodiversity. The
extraction of mineral raw materials may also have a negative impact on communities. Currently, these
raw materials are sometimes extracted in regions that bear a greater risk of violations of labor, social and
environmental standards. We are therefore committed to a sustainable supply chain especially for these
materials (see page 299). We consider Indigenous peoples, on whose land extraction of raw materials is
planned, to be among the vulnerable groups of affected communities.
We also regard direct neighbors of our production sites as affected communities, as well as other people
in the area surrounding our industrial premises who could be impacted by our production operations and
the associated potential environmental emissions or by the disposal of contaminated substances. We
have set ourselves global targets in order to ensure that our products are produced safely for people and
the environment alike (see page 31).
In our double materiality assessment (see page 167), the topic S3 Affected Communities was identified
as material. As a result of the assessment, we see a material risk for BASF, as well as four material
impacts on affected communities (see table on page 304).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 303
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Results of the double materiality assessment for S3 Affected Communities: Impacts
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Potential adverse effects on health Negative, BASF’s own The production and use of chemicals in our own
associated with the production and potential operations, upstream operations and in our value chain could potentially
use of chemicals and downstream value impair the health of people and communities.
chain
Potential restriction of Indigenous Negative, Upstream value chain Our procurement of raw materials may have
peoples’ right to free, prior and potential potential impacts on Indigenous peoples and may
informed consent limit their right to free, prior and informed consent
(FPIC) regarding activities in their surroundings.
Contribution to the positive Positive BASF’s own Through our business activities, our stakeholder
development of communities operations engagement and our societal engagement, we
exert a positive economic, social and cultural
influence on communities.
Positive contribution to food supply Positive Downstream value Our crop protection products and our seeds help
chain to ensure that crops produce a good yield in spite
of pests and other problems so that people benefit
from an adequate food supply.
Results of the double materiality assessment for S3 Affected Communities: Risks and opportunities
Risk Evaluation Description
Loss of societal acceptance due to Negative In the event of negative impacts on communities, societal acceptance of our
potential adverse effects on the business activities could suffer in the short to long term, trust could be lost in
health of people and communities BASF and the risk of litigation could increase.
Strategy and governance
S3-1
The acceptance and support of our stakeholders is crucial for our business success. We pursue the
principle of coexisting well with affected communities by reducing negative impacts of our business
operations and maximizing positive impacts. As such, we want to contribute to an improved quality of life
for everyone.
The protection of affected communities is a central concern and we are committed to producing safely
for both people and the environment. Our environmental protection, health, safety and quality
management system, which builds on the guiding principles of the Responsible Care® initiative, quality
management and other relevant management standards, serves to protect the environment and the
health and safety of our employees, third-party workers and neighbors. The Corporate Center unit
Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality, which reports directly to the Board of
Executive Directors, determines the Group-wide management and control systems and monitors
compliance with internal requirements and legal guidelines (for additional information on the
responsibilities of the Corporate Center units in the Board of Executive Directors, see page 141). At the
same time, the sites and Group companies are responsible for implementing the stipulated guidelines at
local level.
It is fundamentally important to us to respect human rights and not to violate them through our business
activities at any time. We record compliance risks, including those related to communities that could
potentially be affected by our business activities, by means of regular risk assessments of our operating
divisions and Group companies worldwide (see page 154). Based on the BASF Group’s Policy Statement
on Human Rights, we are committed to respecting the human rights of local communities and vulnerable
groups and strengthening these rights along the entire value chain. This includes, among others,
Indigenous peoples as a particularly vulnerable group. We are committed to acting responsibly and
entrepreneurially in accordance with the following international standards:
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 304
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations (U.N.)
– Both U.N. Human Rights Covenants
– Core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO)
– Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy
– Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact
– U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
– OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
– Responsible Care® Global Charter of the International Council of Chemical Associations
We have anchored our human rights responsibility in our BASF Code of Conduct and our Supplier Code
of Conduct (see page 295). We expect all our partners to comply with international human rights
standards. Where necessary, we support them in meeting their due diligence obligations. We strive to
meet our responsibility along the entire value chain and are willing to face the associated opportunities
and risks. Respect for human rights is systematically integrated into our corporate governance and
decision-making processes. The global BASF Code of Conduct is binding for all employees and we track
compliance with its guidelines by means of our control and monitoring systems.
Our contribution to the positive development of communities follows our societal engagement policy.
This policy is also based on the BASF Code of Conduct and falls within the responsibility of the
Corporate Center unit Corporate Strategy & Sustainability.
For explanations of our overarching policies in respect of scope of application, accountability, impacts in
the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and engagement thereof, see General
Disclosures in our Sustainability Statement on page 152.
We review the resilience of our business models in relation to various sustainability aspects as part of the
development of our business strategy. The strategies of our strategic business units are updated on a
regular basis in conjunction with experts from the business units and the Corporate Strategy &
Sustainability unit. We have also integrated social and human rights-related assessments within our
governance and decision-making processes, for example for investment, acquisition and divestiture
projects. We involve key stakeholders in decisions on future investments at an early stage. These may
also include representatives of affected communities.
The business strategy of our Agricultural Solutions division and its contribution to food supply are
outlined on page 307 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 305
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
S3-1 ESRS 2 SBM-3
Material impacts of BASF on affected communities
In the following section, we explain in more detail our strategy in relation to the four material impacts of
BASF on affected communities.
Potential adverse effects on health due to our business activities
As a global chemical company, BASF is aware of the risks associated with the use and manufacture of
chemicals. These may also include adverse effects on the health of affected communities, for example
due to contaminated drinking water. Impacts may also arise due to the production of chemicals at our
sites and in our upstream and downstream value chain.
We aim to ensure safe production through our environmental protection, health, safety and quality
management system. It is our responsibility to protect, in particular, the health and safety of our
employees, customers and neighbors by continuously identifying potential hazards and minimizing risks
(see page 285).
We strive to prevent potential adverse effects on health along our value chains and use our insights to
take appropriate measures to avoid any repetition of potential negative impacts on affected communities.
Our global standards and guidelines, for example on handling the natural resource of water, are clearly
defined in Group-wide requirements. Our sites and Group companies are responsible for implementing
and complying with both the Group-wide requirements and local guidelines. By means of regular audits,
the Corporate Center unit Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality monitors
compliance with the guidelines.
With our commitment to product stewardship under Responsible Care® and the initiatives of the
International Council of Chemical Associations, we are committed to minimizing the negative effects of
our products on health, safety and the environment, and to continuously improving the safety of our
products. Before our products are launched on the market, they undergo various tests and
assessments – depending on their application profile and legal requirements. By conducting these tests,
we aim to identify potential hazard indicators, as well as health and environmental risks, at an early stage.
Based on these findings, we devise suitable preventive and protective measures and develop
recommendations on secure handling – from production and application through to disposal.
To ensure product safety, we have established global management systems in our downstream value
chains. For example, we set global guidelines on the safe transportation of hazardous goods for our
logistics service providers and, where necessary, advise our customers on product safety to ensure that
our products, when used responsibly and for their intended purpose, do not pose any risk to either
humans or the environment (for more information, see page 214).
The right of Indigenous peoples to free, prior and informed consent
BASF opposes all forms of human rights violations and, through the BASF Group’s Policy Statement on
Human Rights, has committed itself to respecting and promoting the human rights of local communities
and vulnerable groups along the entire value chain (see page 315). This also includes implementation of
the principle of free, prior and informed consent (FPIC) for Indigenous peoples.
Where our activities could impact Indigenous peoples in particular, we seek dialog with nongovernmental
organizations before we even invest; this may, for instance, take the form of establishing an
environmental, social and governance (ESG) advisory council on a case-by-case basis (see page 310).
We record compliance risks, including those related to communities that may potentially be affected by
our business operations, by means of regular risk assessments of our operating divisions and Group
companies worldwide.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 306
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We systematically evaluate the sustainability performance of our suppliers and have set ourselves the
target of achieving concrete improvements for suppliers who score poorly in this evaluation (see page
301). Our purchasing organization has also established a global risk-based management system for our
upstream supply chain in order to implement our due diligence processes. We have defined our
standards in a global requirement. Where we source renewable raw materials, we also consider social
factors such as working conditions and food security. We seek regular dialog with our stakeholders to
avoid conflicting goals and include recognized certification standards in our decisions.
This applies, for example, when purchasing palm oil and palm kernel oil, two of our most important
renewable raw materials: We mainly use these to produce ingredients for the cosmetics, detergent,
cleaner and food industries. Based on our global Supplier Code of Conduct, we have defined our
expectations of suppliers in the palm-based value chain in a supplementary procurement policy (BASF
Palm Sourcing Policy). This addresses not only certification standards, traceability and environmental
aspects, but also the respect of workers’ rights and the rights of Indigenous peoples as well as the
inclusion of smallholder structures. We expect, for example, that the right of Indigenous and local
communities to grant or refuse their free, prior and informed consent is respected in relation to land-use
changes associated with the sourcing of palm oil. This pertains to all groups of people who hold inherent
or social rights in accordance with the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
(UNDRIP) and the social guidelines of the High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA) (see page 241).
We have also established dedicated processes for the procurement of mineral raw materials to trace the
origin of conflict minerals in the supply chain and ensure that they come from conflict-free sources. In
this way, we want to minimize negative impacts on the part of BASF.
We have implemented the EU’s Conflict Minerals Regulation, for example by carrying out a compliance
check for the import of conflict minerals in our ordering system. This regulation defines supply chain due
diligence for tin, tantalum, tungsten and their ores as well as gold (3TG1) imported into the EU from
conflict-affected and high-risk areas (CAHRAs2).
»For more information on our guidelines in connection with conflict materials, see basf.com/conflictmineralsreport
In addition, we place importance on certifications such as the LBMA certificate3 for gold, the LPPM
certificate4 for platinum group metals, and the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Responsible Minerals
Assurance Process. Furthermore, BASF is committed to responsible and sustainable global supply
chains for other mineral raw materials. These include cobalt, a key component in the production of
battery materials. We have organized our cobalt supply chain according to established sustainability
guidelines such as the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals. Our
goal is to not purchase cobalt from artisanal mines as long as responsible labor, social and
environmental standards cannot be verified.
Food supply through our products
As one of the world’s leading companies, we offer products and innovations for agriculture and support
the sustainable transformation of the agricultural and food system. Our crop protection products, our
seeds and our digital solutions help to ensure that crops produce a high yield so that people benefit from
an adequate food supply.
1 3TG: Tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold
2 CAHRAs: conflict-affected and high-risk areas
3 LBMA: London Bullion Market Association
4 LPPM: London Platinum and Palladium Market
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 307
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our innovation-driven strategy for agriculture focuses on selected crops and their appropriate cultivation
systems: Soy, corn (maize) and cotton in the Americas; wheat, canola (oilseed rape) and sunflower in
North America and Europe; rice in Asia; and fruit and vegetables globally.
In our Agricultural Solutions division, we are working to strike the right balance between economic,
environmental and social value creation for future-oriented and highly efficient agriculture. In light of the
increasing global population, demand for food and feed, renewable raw materials and energy continues
to rise, whereas land suitable for agriculture is limited. Accordingly, even more efficient farming is
essential. It must be balanced and needs to ensure that sufficient quantities of healthy and affordable
food can be produced. At the same time, it is extremely important to reduce negative impacts on the
environment and potential adverse effects on health connected with the production and use of crop
protection products to acceptable levels.
We leverage our expertise in research and development and our deep understanding of the way
individual growers manage their farms to provide offers across technologies. These include novel
solutions for seeds, traits, fungicides, herbicides, insecticides, biological solutions and digital products
tailored to regional farming needs and crop systems.
Contribution to the positive development of communities
Through our activities, we aim to strengthen the communities surrounding our sites worldwide, contribute
to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and have a long-term positive impact
on the environment and society. We have a positive impact on local communities through the business
activities at our sites. We create jobs and contribute to local value creation. Through our societal
engagement, we aim to improve people’s quality of life through the prevention and combating of
illnesses (health), promote educational equity, employability and economic participation (skills) and
safeguard natural resources (resources) (see page 311).
S3-2
Continuous dialog with our stakeholder groups and their involvement represent integral components of
BASF’s corporate responsibility. Therefore, responsibility for the central governance, quality assurance
and ongoing development of our engagement with societal stakeholders lies with the Corporate Strategy
& Sustainability unit, which is part of the Corporate Center and is assigned the direct responsibility of the
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors. The insights gained as part of the dialog are of
considerable importance and are included in relevant strategic decisions. A company-wide group of
involved employees ensures the exchange of insights and experiences as well as the ongoing
improvement of our measures and approaches.
In order to be able to better assess our impacts on, and risks for, affected communities, we have
structured our stakeholder engagement in such a way that we consider the feedback of affected
communities in our business activities. As part of our Responsible Care management (see page 222), we
aim, for example, to safeguard the right of residents at our sites to access clean water.
We bear a particular responsibility toward the neighbors of our sites. We promote continuous dialog
between residents and our site management and strengthen trust in our activities with community
advisory panels. The globally applicable guidelines for these forums are based on the U.N. Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights in relation to grievance mechanisms. In this way, individuals
and groups, such as NGOs and associations, have the opportunity to raise concerns directly and on a
regular basis. The forums are active for an indefinite period.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 308
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The interests of Indigenous peoples are included on three levels comprising dialog with human rights
experts, direct dialog with representatives of the Indigenous peoples and dialog with nongovernmental
organizations representing Indigenous peoples. In this regard, we observe our Group-wide requirements
on interactions with representatives of civil society.
We address current and important issues on certain topics with advisory councils. This enables BASF to
gain a better understanding of the impacts of its business activities on society and the environment. The
insights gained facilitate sound decisions, both in relation to operational projects and strategic
development. The relevant Corporate Center units, such as the Sustainability Relations and Trends unit,
are responsible for ensuring regular and appropriate interactions.
In 2023, BASF set up an advisory council for issues surrounding the protection of biodiversity and
ecosystems – the Nature Advisory Council (NAC) – to receive an independent societal perspective on
our activities in relation to nature and biodiversity topics. The aim is to obtain constructive feedback and
specific advice on nature-related topics and our strategic approach as well as our contributions to a
more sustainable future. The NAC will remain active for an indefinite period and, at the end of 2024,
comprised five members from scientific fields, relevant value chains and multilateral organizations. It met
most recently in November 2024 and discussed the approach to biodiversity taken by BASF with relevant
experts and leaders.
The Human Rights Advisory Council (HRAC), established in 2020, provides a trust-based and
constructive dialog to enable us to better meet our role and responsibility, particularly in situations that
are challenging in terms of human rights. It comprises independent international human rights experts
and meets regularly, thus enabling us to obtain additional human rights expertise. The HRAC helps us to
better understand different perspectives on human rights, address conflicting aims and take into account
the rights of Indigenous peoples and the limits of corporate due diligence. The Council also contributes
to building on our human rights-related strengths and identifying potential improvements. It meets up to
three times a year and is active for an indefinite period. The meetings held in 2024 were attended by
representatives from Corporate Compliance and Corporate Strategy & Sustainability, plus other experts
from the operating divisions.
In 2023, the Sustainability Lab, another stakeholder engagement format, was held for the first time.
Here, around 100 internal and external experts discussed specific issues concerning sustainable
development from a variety of perspectives (for more information, see page 166).
A new format is our Civil Society Forum, which was established in Berlin in March 2024 and includes
representatives of the operating divisions affected by the topics concerned as well as representatives
from the Corporate Center. It facilitates a confidential dialog with representatives from civil society and
trade unions. The aim of the forum is to actively explain the company’s activities in relation to current and
potential projects and its positioning in this regard. As such, the Civil Society Forum offers a platform for
feedback from civil society. The subsequent incorporation of external feedback into internal strategic
management systems aims at finding feasible solutions for all stakeholders.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 309
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Where necessary, we use the format of an ESG Council as an instrument for case-by-case engagement
with stakeholders, such as affected communities. In this way, the viewpoints of relevant stakeholders can
also be incorporated at an early stage in the decision-making process on future investments. We
employed this instrument, for instance, in the context of a potential investment in a nickel/cobalt refinery
complex in Weda Bay, Indonesia.5 We also review current investments on the basis of the sustainability
criteria on an ongoing basis and employ suitable dialog formats on a case-by-case basis to incorporate
societal perspectives.
Our engagement in multistakeholder and other initiatives represents a key component of our strategic
approach in relation to affected communities and all human resources in the value chain. BASF engages
in networks such as Cobalt for Development, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, the Global Battery
Alliance and the Responsible Lithium Partnership, which is scheduled to run until 2025.
S3-3
The BASF compliance hotline is publicly accessible to everyone as a grievance mechanism; as such, it
can also be used by affected communities worldwide and their representatives. For more information on
how the issues raised and addressed are tracked and monitored, see page 321.
Should concerns be raised or a violation identified in relation to our own activities, we immediately take
the action required in order to appropriately address and end the violation. Whenever human rights
violations on the part of our direct suppliers or in our supply chains come to our attention, we expect and
demand that our direct suppliers immediately end the violations or investigate them appropriately. Where
necessary, we support our suppliers in overcoming the associated challenges and in making
improvements to their sustainability performance. At the same time, we also reserve the right, as a last
resort, to seek out potential alternatives and to terminate supplier relationships in the event of continued
violations of our standards.
In the 2024 reporting year, we were notified of one case of potentially serious incidents relating to our
palm oil supply chain. Specifically, the case concerned allegations of disproportionate use of force
against affected communities by security forces of an indirect supplier. We immediately suspended this
supplier.
Beyond that, we take reports of problems in connection with affected communities seriously and
investigate them. in 2024, three cases were brought to our attention in which allegations of unlawful land
confiscation were made to the detriment of affected communities in the palm oil supply chain. These
cases were also the subject of legal proceedings in the reporting year. One of these three cases
concerns a direct supplier that is certified in accordance with the standards of the multistakeholder
program Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). RSPO investigations have not confirmed the
allegations. We have also been informed that no relevant rights violations were found in the official
investigation conducted in the context of the legal proceedings. The other two cases relate to indirect
suppliers. The investigation and legal proceedings are still ongoing, based on which we will consider the
next steps.
In our view, the reports regularly received in all regions – both from the company’s employees and third
parties, such as NGOs – confirm the functionality and effectiveness of this complaint channel.
5 Following a detailed review, BASF decided not to implement a nickel-cobalt refinery project in Weda Bay, Indonesia, partly because the availability of battery grade nickel has
improved for BASF.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 310
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Actions
S3-4
In order to mitigate negative impacts and risks while simultaneously seizing opportunities in connection
with affected communities along our value chains, we take concrete actions, which we explain below on
the basis of the material subtopics for this chapter. These actions often entail decentralized measures,
projects and initiatives that are not assigned to any centrally managed action plan. Instead, they – like
our management and monitoring systems – aim to ensure continuous improvement and further
development and fall within the responsibility of the sites and Group companies concerned. This goes
hand in hand with the BASF approach to sustainability steering (see page 152).
We use various dialog formats and bodies and incorporate the insights gained into our business
operations and strategic planning. Fundamentally, we distinguish between direct engagement with
affected stakeholders, such as through our community advisory panels, and indirect engagement via
representatives on our advisory councils (see page 308).
As part of our due diligence, for example, we are in regular contact with our South African platinum
suppliers, including Sibanye-Stillwater.6 In order to gain a comprehensive picture of the situation on the
ground and address relevant issues, we engage in continuous dialog with relevant stakeholder groups.
Most recently, BASF invited the stakeholder groups involved to an in-person meeting in Germany in
September 2024. At this meeting, representatives of our suppliers and of NGOs from South Africa and
Germany, as well as other experts, held a constructive discussion on the environmental and human
rights-related situation.
Moreover, we take further measures designed to minimize BASF’s negative impacts on affected
communities and support positive impacts.
Actions to avoid potential adverse effects on health
We take numerous actions to design products in such a way that their impacts on the environment and
on society are as small as possible along their entire value chain (see page 161).
In order to minimize negative impacts and risks in the upstream value chain, we rely on open dialog with
our suppliers as well as their assessment and development. We support preventive and local initiatives to
improve the working conditions of our suppliers’ employees. Our management processes are activated in
the event of specific work-related incidents (see page 295).
To prevent work-related incidents and their associated impacts on employees and their relatives, we
support and demand safe and risk-aware working practices, learning from events and the regular sharing
of experiences among our employees. In addition, employees at our production sites receive regular
training on how to handle chemicals safely and how to use personal protective equipment correctly (see
page 285). Moreover, teams of experts at all our sites deal with health, occupational safety and
environmental protection matters. The Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality unit
in the Corporate Center conducts regular audits to monitor compliance with internal requirements and
legal guidelines at regular intervals (see pages 278 and 209).
6 In 2012, a long-running strike at a platinum mine in Marikana, South Africa, ended in a violent confrontation between workers at the mine and the South African police. In this
confrontation, employees of the then mine operator Lonmin also lost their lives. In 2019, the Marikana mine passed into the ownership of Sibanye-Stillwater. For more
information on the supplier relationship of the Sibanye-Stillwater mine, see basf.com/en/marikana.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 311
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We also aim to minimize potential incidents impacting the environment through our targets for safe and
resource-efficient production, particularly our process safety target (see page 212). In order to reduce the
number of process safety incidents, we draw on technical measures, digital solutions and a management
culture that puts process safety and an open approach to errors even more to the fore. In addition, we
are continually refining and expanding our training methods and offerings to increase risk awareness and
strengthen our safety culture.
Due to our focus on operational excellence (see also page 190), we continuously design more energy-
and resource-efficient plants and processes. This helps to reduce emissions. We thus take a wealth of
measures to reduce emissions to air, for example by using catalysts to lower nitrogen oxides and feeding
waste gases back into the production process. When it comes to emissions into water, our approach is
to reduce wastewater volumes and contaminant loads at the source in our production processes and to
reuse wastewater and material flows internally as far as possible. As part of our water protection
concepts, we also conduct regular hazard assessments of our wastewater, evaluate it in terms of its risks
and derive suitable monitoring measures.
In order to safeguard water as a resource, we are involved in the Alliance for Water Stewardship, as well
as networks such as the Alliance to End Plastic Waste and Operation Clean Sweep® to ensure that waste
from plastics production does not enter bodies of water.
Misuse of our crop protection and seed products may have a negative impact on human health and the
environment. We are therefore focusing our smart stewardship activities on education and
continuously improving our solutions for farmers. Alongside aspects such as efficacy and productivity,
this also encompasses the safe use of our products and reducing their impacts on the environment. Our
commitment to safety includes not only our employees, but also our suppliers and customers. Crop
protection products must be used responsibly and require safety measures to protect farmers and other
professional users against hazards. We therefore launched the Global Personal Protective Equipment
(PPE) Initiative in order to put the safety of users center stage. The Suraksha Hamesha (translation from
Hindi: “Safety all the time”) program of BASF in India is designed to train farmers and other users in the
safe and responsible use of crop protection products and focuses on risk minimization measures.
The traceability and assessment of our actions with respect to their efficacy in protecting affected
communities in the areas around our own production sites are, among other things, based on our global
targets for safe and resource-efficient production (for additional information, see page 31). By
systematically evaluating the sustainability performance of our suppliers and, where there is a need for
improvement, by working closely with our partners, we can verify whether negative impacts on health are
being effectively prevented in our upstream value chain (see page 297).
Actions to respect the right of Indigenous peoples to free, prior and informed consent
Through our business operations, we are connected with a huge number of people worldwide who are
either directly or indirectly influenced by our activities. We meet our responsibility to respect human
rights throughout our entire value chain in order to honor and promote rights, particularly in relation to
vulnerable groups (see page 306).
We regard the implementation of human rights-related due diligence processes as a comprehensive
endeavor that we can only achieve if all employees and leaders work together. That is why we have
embedded our responsibility for human rights into our Code of Conduct and set this out in our Policy
Statement on Human Rights. We uphold our standards worldwide, including where they exceed local
legal guidelines. All employees and leaders bear responsibility for ensuring that we act in accordance
with our Code of Conduct and Policy Statement on Human Rights. In order to live up to our responsibility
as holistically as possible, employees from various specialist units (such as Procurement; Legal; HR;
Corporate Environmental Protection, Health, Safety & Quality; Sustainability; Site Security; Logistics;
Communications and Governmental Relations) and from our operating divisions work together closely as
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 312
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
part of our overarching Human Rights Expert Working Group (see page 272). When meeting our
responsibility to respect the right of Indigenous peoples to free, prior and informed consent (FPIC), we
rely on established monitoring systems. Since we understand human rights due diligence obligation as
an ongoing task, we regularly review our due diligence mechanisms and improve them where necessary.
We track the effectiveness of our activities to respect the rights of Indigenous peoples using the number
of issues and incidents brought to our attention.
We are committed to active dialog with affected communities. Take the sourcing of lithium, for instance.
Together with the BMW Group, Mercedes-Benz AG, Fairphone B.V., Daimler Truck AG and the
Volkswagen Group, we have been a member of the Responsible Lithium Partnership initiative since
2021. This initiative, which is scheduled to run until 2025, promotes the responsible use of natural
resources in the Salar de Atacama salt flat in Chile. This region is home to the world’s largest lithium
brine reserves and a significant share of global production. With this in mind, the Deutsche Gesellschaft
für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Corporation for International Cooperation, GIZ) was
commissioned with organizing a local multistakeholder platform, also comprising Indigenous
communities, on the water-related opportunities and risks of lithium and copper extraction and other
commercial activities as well as with driving forward action plans. BASF participated in a study organized
by the BMW Group together with experts from the University of Alaska and the University of
Massachusetts to examine the hydrological conditions in Salar de Atacama. The results of this study are
incorporated as an important component of the work of the Responsible Lithium Partnership initiative.
Actions to promote a positive contribution to food supply
The Agricultural Solutions division focuses on developing products and solutions designed to make
agriculture more efficient and sustainable. These products comprise crop protection products, fertilizer
management solutions, seeds and digital solutions. Through innovative technologies and research, BASF
contributes to increasing agricultural productivity and simultaneously reducing environmental impacts.
BASF invests in research and development in order to develop new and resistant seed varieties that can
better thrive in different climate zones, under pressure from pests and under changing climatic
conditions. Moreover, we promote more sustainable growing methods that optimize the use of water and
nutrients and protect biodiversity.
A further key area involves promoting digital solutions that help farmers to increase their yields. These
technologies enable more precise use of fertilizers and crop protection products, which not only boosts
efficiency but also minimizes the impact on the environment.
BASF is engaged in multiple initiatives to strengthen food supply chains and improve access to food,
especially in emerging markets. We work with various partners to offer training programs for farmers,
helping them to learn modern growing methods and maximize their yields.
With the products and solutions of the Agricultural Solutions division, we support our customers in
reducing crop losses, achieving better yields and producing safe food. The commercial success of the
Agricultural Solutions division therefore provides the basis for assessing the extent to which we make a
positive contribution to food supply.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 313
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Actions to promote the positive development of communities
Through our business activities, our stakeholder engagement and our societal engagement, we strive to
have a positive economic, social and cultural influence on communities.
Our societal engagement activities are globally consolidated into three focus areas across BASF
Group: We want to improve people’s quality of life by preventing and combating disease, promoting
educational equality, employability and economic participation, and safeguarding natural resources.
In 2024, the BASF Group spent around €32 million on societal engagement. In the field of international
development cooperation and disaster management, we supported the independent and nonprofit
BASF Stiftung with donations for its international project work in tandem with various organizations. The
proceeds from the 2024 year-end donation campaign went to the BASF Stiftung and UNHCR, the U.N.
Refugee Agency, and their work to support refugees in Sudan. BASF increased the donations from
employees of participating German Group companies by €100,000 for a total of around €370,000.
Our intrapreneurship program, Starting Ventures, provides ongoing support to people from low-income
areas to improve their economic opportunities and their quality of life. At the same time, the program
affords us access to new markets and partners. BASF is tackling challenges on the ground together with
local partners and contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with entrepreneurial ideas,
technical expertise and time resources. Nine new Starting Ventures projects were selected for
implementation in December 2024.
At many sites, BASF works with partners for high-quality education (SDG4) and more educational
equality, particularly for disadvantaged children and young people. For BASF, scientific education and
education for sustainable development represent central capabilities that contribute to personal success
and the future of society. For 27 years now, children and young people in 45 countries have been able to
take part in experiments in BASF Kids’ and Teens’ Labs. This year, some 100 young people in
Ludwigshafen took part in the “Expedition Erdreich” (“Expedition Earth”) program, learning about
biodiversity and its importance for climate protection and society.
The Young Voices for a Sustainable Future project was initiated in 2022 in tandem with the
nongovernmental organization JA Worldwide. This project enables young people to address sustainable
development topics at a local level in partnership with BASF employees. As part of an innovation
challenge, participants learn to recognize the impacts of climate change on their communities and
influence the resulting challenges. As such, we seek to continuously empower young people to actively
take responsibility and champion positive changes in their communities. In 2024, the project was
implemented in Thailand, the Philippines, Nigeria, Mexico, Uruguay and the Amazon region in Brazil.
Through our activities in the domain of public health, we endeavor to improve the quality of life of people
around the world by preventing and combating diseases. We achieve this goal by partnering with the
international community, including international healthcare, governmental and humanitarian
organizations. More than 100 million Interceptor G2 mosquito nets have been supplied since 2019.
Based on calculations by MedAccess, these long-lasting, insecticide-treated nets may therefore have
prevented 200 million people from contracting malaria. BASF’s commitment to eliminating malaria also
comprises ongoing product innovation in conjunction with product safety training and education.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 314
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Furthermore, BASF engages in projects to fortify food products with micronutrients, especially in
developing countries. We are active in multistakeholder alliances in order to achieve a sustainable impact
through product solutions, technical support, scientific capacities and the development of partnerships.
Since 2021, BASF has been a founding member of the Millers for Nutrition coalition, which pursues the
objective of strengthening practices for fortifying food in eight countries with a micronutrient deficiency.
In 2024, BASF provided technical training on food fortification and products to combat micronutrient
deficiencies in more than 40 countries.
Through our Smallholder Engagement program, we aim to help smallholders adapt to a changing
climate and safeguard both their own livelihoods and food security for their communities. BASF works
with the NGO Solidaridad, for instance, to support coffee growers as part of the ongoing KAJVE initiative.
This project was initiated in 2021 by BASF and UNESCO and aims to improve the quality of life of coffee
growers by means of comprehensive training and development. The partnership’s goal is to continuously
improve the introduction of more sustainable growing methods, facilitate knowledge sharing and foster
climate-resistant coffee production by means of innovative solutions.
In India, BASF has initiated a project that seeks to better integrate smallholders within the agricultural
value chain. Operating in partnership with the nongovernmental organization Collective for Integrated
Livelihood Initiatives (CInI), Solidaridad and the World Vegetable Center, this project contributes to
improving the climate resistance of these communities, enabling the transition to genuine agricultural
entrepreneurship and bettering the living conditions of families and communities in a climate-smart way.
In another project, BASF and Solidaridad work together to empower Brazilian farmers to foster
biodiversity and sustainable farming practices. What is innovative about this project is the
multistakeholder approach with which we jointly develop measures and practices to foster biodiversity
and climate resilience that can be accepted and implemented by all parties involved – farmers, NGOs,
industry and experts.
Societal engagement activities can only unlock their full potential if they are strategically planned,
professionally managed and assessed in terms of their effectiveness. Therefore, BASF’s internal societal
engagement requirements stipulate that Group companies measure their societal engagement activities
using the internationally established IOOI method (input – output – outcome – impact) and make
adjustments where necessary.
Global targets
S3-5
Many of our sustainability-related corporate targets (for additional information, see page 31) contribute to
the protection of affected communities. These include our climate protection targets to reduce our
greenhouse gas emissions (see page 194), our responsible procurement target (see page 301), our
sustainable water management target (see page 227) and our targets for safe and resource-efficient
production (see pages 287 and 212). Beyond these targets, BASF has not set itself a specific target for
the topics identified as material in the area of Affected Communities.
In general, we do not want to be associated with human rights violations and we meet our human rights-
related responsibility toward affected communities. In doing so, we take into account the particular
needs of vulnerable groups such as Indigenous peoples and seek open dialog and communication with
our neighbors in order to continuously strengthen trust in our business activities.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 315
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
We strive to be a good neighbor at our sites, respect existing rights and respond to the needs of local
communities and their residents. We create jobs and contribute to local value creation. We strive to
protect the livelihoods of our neighbors and, in particular, show consideration for vulnerable groups such
as Indigenous peoples and smallholders. We are committed to open communication and dialog between
affected communities and BASF in order to strengthen trust in our activities.
Societal engagement is a cornerstone of our corporate responsibility and part of our sustainability
management. We want to contribute to an improved quality of life for everyone. To this end, we have
firmly anchored the three pillars of sustainability (economy, environment and society) within our corporate
purpose, our strategy, our objectives and our activities throughout the value chain. Our societal
engagement is voluntary and goes beyond the statutory minimum, the main aim being to achieve positive
impacts on society, the environment and BASF alike. Through our activities, we aim to strengthen the
communities surrounding our sites worldwide and contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).
In order to meet the nutrition needs of the future global population, more food needs to be produced
using fewer resources. Together with our customers, we want to identify the most important levers for a
more sustainable value chain in the food and feed industry. Sustainable productivity is key to
safeguarding food supply in an environmentally friendly way – and our crop protection and seed
products play a vital role in this regard.
Even though BASF has not set a specific target for the topics identified as material in the area of Affected
Communities, we nevertheless track the effectiveness of our actions and requirements in this field. The
corporate requirements cited in this chapter are designed to ensure continuous optimization and ongoing
development. Our Group-wide Compliance Program aims to ensure adherence to these requirements
(see page 319). We also take a risk-based approach to reviewing the effectiveness of our systems
through our internal Corporate Audit unit. In 2023, for example, engagement with external stakeholders
through our Human Rights Advisory Council was evaluated as part of an audit on human rights
governance and compliance with the German Supply Chain Act (LkSG). In the 2024 reporting year, we
also began introducing an internal control system for compliance and monitoring of our due diligence
obligations in relation to the ESRS (see page 155).
We discuss the sustainability topics that are material for BASF at regular meetings with external
stakeholders as part of our strategic stakeholder engagement activities as well as in discussions with
investors. On this basis, stakeholder expectations are continuously incorporated into the development of
sustainability management approaches, targets and principles.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 316
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Governance
G1 Business Conduct
ESRS G1
As an international chemical company, we operate in countries and
markets with different guidelines and conditions. Our global values and
standards serve as the pillars of our corporate culture, guiding responsible
action in all our activities and securing our license to operate. By living
these values every day, we aim to earn and maintain the respect and trust
of our customers, partners and employees.
ESRS 2 IRO-1
The key element of our responsible corporate governance is the Compliance Program with a global Code
of Conduct. We record opportunities and risks as part of our opportunity and risk management (see page
87). Impacts, risks and opportunities are systematically recorded as part of the double materiality
assessment (see page 167). We identify compliance risks through regular risk assessments of our
operating divisions and Group companies worldwide (see page 320). We also conduct risk-based checks
of our global business partners for any signs of corrupt behavior (see page 323).
As part of our double materiality assessment, we identified the following impacts as material:
Results of the double materiality assessment for G1 Business Conduct
Placement in the
Impacts Evaluation value chain Description
Global Code of Conduct Positive BASF’s own Our global Code of Conduct has a positive impact
operations, upstream on the workforce in our company and on our value
and downstream value chains.
chain
Global compliance measures and Positive BASF’s own Our global compliance measures and systems
systems operations, upstream have a positive impact on our own workforce and
and downstream value other employees in our value chains.
chain
Anticorruption training Positive BASF’s own The mandatory training ensures that employees
operations also learn how to be vigilant in order to prevent any
form of bribery or corruption. In this way, we
contribute to a business environment in which
corruption and bribery are not tolerated. By being
perceived and valued as a trustworthy company,
BASF can help to reduce corruption and bribery.
Our global Code of Conduct as well as our compliance management system and associated measures
(for example, anticorruption training) promote a positive business environment both for our employees
and throughout the upstream and downstream value chain. This contributes to an environment
characterized by respect and ethical and responsible conduct in accordance with applicable laws. Our
business conduct measures are implemented centrally and globally, however, they are not governed by a
centrally managed action plan. This goes hand in hand with BASF’s approach to sustainability steering
(see page 152).
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 317
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Strategy and governance
ESRS 2 GOV-1
Our values, corporate principles and guidelines are firmly anchored in our Corporate Governance. The
Board of Executive Directors is responsible for ensuring that the company’s activities comply with the
applicable legislation and regulatory requirements as well as internal corporate requirements and ethical
business practices. This includes the establishment of a compliance management system as well as
embedding a company-wide compliance culture with undisputed standards. These standards are
embedded in our Code of Conduct (see “Compliance Program, Corporate values and Code of Conduct”)
and are binding for all employees in our day-to-day business. Members of the Board of Executive
Directors are also expressly obligated to follow these principles. The Audit Committee established by the
Supervisory Board checks the effectiveness of the compliance management system as part of its
monitoring activities for the company’s internal control and risk management system.
G1-3
BASF’s Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Executive
Directors and manages the further development of our global compliance organization and compliance
management system. The CCO is supported in this task by the Corporate Compliance unit and more
than 100 compliance officers and representatives worldwide in the regions1 and countries as well as in
the operating divisions, service units and in the Corporate Center. Material compliance topics are
regularly discussed in the compliance committees established at the global and regional level. The
compliance organization reports to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee at least twice a year on the
status of the Compliance Program as well as any major developments. In the event of significant
incidents, the Audit Committee is immediately informed by the Board of Executive Directors. The Board
of Executive Directors informs the Supervisory Board regularly, without delay and comprehensively, of all
issues important to the company, including compliance, and coordinates the company’s strategic
orientation with the Supervisory Board.
ESRS 2 GOV-1 G1-3
To ensure that members of the Board of Executive Directors have relevant expertise with respect to
business conduct, BASF’s long-term succession planning takes into account the role model function of
potential candidates in implementing the corporate values as well as various diversity criteria (see page
113). As part of their onboarding, newly appointed members of the Board of Executive Directors are
individually briefed on BASF’s Compliance Program, compliance management system, and the legal and
internal corporate governance guidelines. Members of the Board of Executive Directors together with
leaders play a key role in our compliance culture. All new Supervisory Board members who serve on the
Audit Committee also receive training on our Compliance Program. By virtue of their many years of
leadership experience within the BASF Group, all members of the Board of Executive Directors are fully
conversant with corporate governance, culture and policies, and in particular with the Code of Conduct.
On the Supervisory Board, by dint of their decades of management experience, Dr. Kurt Bock and Prof.
Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer have in-depth knowledge of corporate governance and corporate policy.
1 The regional structures will be dissolved as part of the new strategy. We will review the structure of the compliance officers in this context.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 318
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Compliance Program, corporate values and Code of Conduct
G1-1
Our Compliance Program is based on our corporate values and voluntary commitments as well as
applicable international standards. We are convinced that compliance with these principles plays a key
role in ensuring our company’s long-term success. The global program describes our commitment to
responsible conduct and expectations around how all BASF employees interact with business partners,
officials, coworkers and society. The main guidelines are primarily summarized in our BASF policies on
compliance, human rights, labor and social standards and in the Supplier Code of Conduct. With our
comprehensive management and monitoring systems, we want to ensure that we act in line with the
applicable laws and uphold our responsibility to the environment and society. This also involves system
audits carried out by the Corporate Audit unit (see page 323). Through our Compliance Program, we aim
to create positive impacts for employees across the entire value chain, for example by creating an
environment that reflects our values and in which human rights are respected. We promote a culture in
which concerns can be openly addressed, thereby facilitating the reporting of potential violations of
applicable laws or internal company guidelines. This helps us to uncover potential shortcomings and take
appropriate measures to remedy them.
Adherence to compliance standards is the foundation of responsible corporate governance – this is
embedded in our CORE corporate values. They define how we want to work together, both within the
company and with our stakeholders:
– C – creative: We make great products and solutions for our customers. This is why we embrace bold
ideas and give them space to grow. We act with optimism and inspire one another.
– O – open: We value diversity, in people, opinions and experience. This is why we foster feedback
based on honesty, respect and mutual trust. We learn from setbacks.
– R – responsible: We value the health and safety of people above all else. We make sustainability part
of every decision. We are committed to strict compliance and environmental standards.
– E – entrepreneurial: We focus on our customers, as individuals and as a company. We seize
opportunities and think ahead. We take ownership and embrace personal accountability.
Our standards are based on, and in some cases, exceed existing laws and regulations and take
internationally recognized principles into account. We respect and promote:
– The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two U.N. Human Rights Covenants
– The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact
– The core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Tripartite Declaration
of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy
– The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
– The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
– The Responsible Care® Global Charter
– The German Corporate Governance Code
Explanations of our overarching policies with regard to their scope of application, unit responsible for
implementation, impacts in the value chain, global applicability, accessibility to stakeholders and
engagement thereof, see General Disclosures in the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement on
page 152.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 319
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
At the core of our Compliance Program is the global, standardized Code of Conduct, which is overseen
by the BASF Board of Executive Directors and to which all employees and leaders must adhere. It covers
topics ranging from corruption and antitrust laws to human rights, labor and social standards, conflicts of
interest, whistleblower protection, trade control and data protection. Through our Code of Conduct, we
also aim to generate positive impacts on compliance with these rights in our own business activities and
in the upstream and downstream value chain. Accordingly, we have embedded our responsibility for
human rights in the BASF Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct and specified this in our
Policy Statement on Human Rights. The Code of Conduct is supplemented by additional global and
regional requirements that address specific topics such as corruption and conflicts of interest in more
detail. For corporate compliance to be a success, there must be an active culture of living these values
and commitments within the company. The principles embedded in our Code of Conduct are established
and recognized in our day-to-day business. We expect all employees to act in line with these principles.
»For more information on the Code of Conduct, see basf.com/code-of-conduct
The primary goal of our compliance management system is to prevent violations from the outset. We
perform continuous systematic risk analyses to identify and assess material risks from compliance
violations, including corruption. This is conducted at the divisional and Group company level.
Accordingly, we implement targeted local and unit-specific requirements. Employees responsible for
procurement are considered to be most at risk of corruption and bribery. Consequently, these employees
in our procurement organization are prohibited from accepting gifts of any kind, in accordance with our
“Zero Gift Policy.” Training materials and formats (see “Information and training to strengthen our
compliance culture”) are continuously updated, taking into account the specific risks of individual target
groups and business areas.
The regular compliance audits performed by the Corporate Audit unit are another source for the
systematic identification of risks. These risks are documented in the relevant risk or audit report. The
same applies to specific risk minimization initiatives as well as the time frame for their implementation.
The Corporate Audit unit continuously monitors compliance with guidelines. The head of our legal and
compliance organization also acts as Chief Human Rights Officer and oversees the overarching risk
management with regard to human rights.
Information and training to strengthen our compliance culture
G1-3
We address the identified material positive impacts on employees and other workers in the value chain
through our compliance management system and anticorruption measures. This includes workshops and
mandatory training. These offerings are a key element in preventing violations and are conducted on an
ongoing basis either in person or online. Within a prescribed time frame, all employees are required to
complete basic, refresher or specialized training on topics such antitrust legislation, money laundering
and trade control regulations. Refresher training must be repeated every two years. Training materials
and formats are continuously updated taking into account the specific risks of individual target groups
and business areas, and include training content on corruption and bribery as well as information about
our grievance mechanisms (see “Monitoring adherence to our compliance principles”). In 2024, more
than 120,000 employees worldwide received over 105,000 hours of training on the Code of Conduct.
Functions-at-risk are fully covered by the training program. Training data is collected through
documentation in our learning management system as well as individual decentralized reports from
Group companies.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 320
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Leaders play a key role in our compliance culture by embodying and communicating our values both
internally and externally. In addition to special workshops on integrity as a leadership task for newly
appointed senior executives, separate training sessions were also offered in 2024 for the managing
directors of BASF Group companies.
The online version of our Code of Conduct is aimed at our employees and offers user-friendly features
such as case studies, FAQs and additional references. We continuously provide our employees
worldwide with up-to-date content such as videos, links to specialist units and requirements as well as
direct contact to subject matter experts on the internal online platform and the corresponding app.
Other binding governance documents (policies, corporate requirements) are provided on an internal
digital platform that offers our employees an advanced search function and context-based links to further
information. The managing directors of BASF Group companies can find important information and
assistance on ensuring compliance in their Group companies on an intranet page set up especially for
them.
Monitoring adherence to our compliance principles
G1-1
We particularly encourage our employees to actively and promptly seek guidance if in doubt. They can
consult their supervisors, specialist units, such as the Legal department, and the BASF compliance
officers and representatives. In addition, the internal compliance information platform and the
corresponding app provide continuous access to advice through direct contact channels. BASF’s
compliance hotline serves as the company grievance mechanism and is open to all BASF employees as
well as external stakeholders, particularly workers in our supply chains (see page 292). The hotline can
be used to raise questions or concerns about potential or actual misconduct, as well as to report
violations of regulations, laws, BASF requirements or BASF’s global Code of Conduct. Reports may
address any topic covered by the global BASF Code of Conduct, including human rights and
environmental issues. Individuals submitting a report have the option to remain anonymous. The hotline
is explicitly mentioned during training sessions and in the context of specific campaigns, such as the
campaign against sexual harassment at the Ludwigshafen site in 2024.
To ensure confidentiality, we have contracted an independent external provider to operate this global
hotline. Reported cases are systematically documented and processed worldwide using a single, uniform
system. The central point of contact is a website that informs all employees worldwide about the hotline
and the grievance procedure in their national language. In addition to local phone numbers, the website
also offers an online contact option, which is available via PC or smartphone. The website is also
available to third parties such as suppliers (see page 296), partners and the public (see page 310). All
relevant information, including the rules of procedure, is publicly available on our website in over 50
languages. We take reports and complaints very seriously and follow up on them. An electronic summary
of the concerns is forwarded only to the responsible employees of the BASF Compliance Team, who
review the case and decide on further actions. Depending on the circumstances, various BASF specialist
units may be involved in the investigation. In certain cases, we may also involve external lawyers or
subject matter experts in the investigation, if necessary. We always aim to respond promptly to
violations. Remedial measures are determined after the investigation, depending on the severity of the
specific case. Examples of such measures include verbal warnings and training. In individual cases, we
take internal disciplinary measures in accordance with uniform standards up to termination of
employment.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 321
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
BASF aims to process all concerns promptly and provide feedback on the status. The grievance
procedure is analyzed and evaluated annually for its appropriateness and effectiveness. This includes
analyzing the number of complaints received, their distribution, processing status and derived measures.
Even though BASF has not set a specific target for the topics identified as material in the area of
Business Conduct, we nevertheless track the effectiveness of our measures and requirements in this
field. The corporate requirements cited in this chapter are designed to ensure continuous optimization
and ongoing development. Our Group-wide Compliance Program aims to ensure adherence to these
policies (see page 319). The internal Corporate Audit unit also regularly reviews the effectiveness of our
systems. In the 2024 reporting year, we also began introducing an internal control system for compliance
and monitoring of our due diligence obligations in relation to the ESRS (see page 155).
We do not tolerate any retaliation against anyone who, in good faith, reports a concern or participates in
an investigation, even if the complaint proves to be unfounded. Retaliation is strictly prohibited according
to our Code of Conduct and would be treated as serious misconduct. Our procedures are based on the
legal guidelines for whistleblower protection to which BASF SE and other Group companies are subject.
G1-3
Each concern is documented according to specific criteria, properly investigated in line with standard
internal procedures and answered as quickly as possible. The principles of an investigation include
objectivity, independence, accuracy, confidentiality and fairness, as well as respect for human rights and
other legal provisions. The responsible Compliance Officers and employees of the Compliance
Organization designated by them are responsible for receiving reports and initiating an appropriate
investigation process. The procedure for handling compliance reports is set out in an internal
requirements. The outcome of the investigation as well as any measures taken are documented
accordingly and included in internal reports.
Incidents
We consider the number of cases reported through our reporting channels and the resulting follow-up
measures, including disciplinary actions, convictions and internal audits conducted in this area to be key
indicators of the effectiveness of our compliance management system and adherence to our Code of
Conduct.
In 2024, the BASF compliance hotline received 751 reports (2023: 643). These reports are recorded in
our global compliance case management system. We attribute the increased use of our hotline to the
updated training materials and online contact option. The information received related to all categories of
our Code of Conduct, including respect in the workplace, corruption, handling of company property and
environmental, health and safety issues. We carefully investigated all cases of suspected misconduct
that came to our attention via the BASF compliance hotline or other channels and, when necessary, took
countermeasures on a case-by-case basis. These included, for example, improved control mechanisms,
additional informational and training measures, clarification and expansion of the relevant internal
regulations, as well as disciplinary measures as appropriate. Most of the substantiated cases related to
violations of our principles on respect in the workplace and personal misconduct in connection with the
protection of company property or inappropriate handling of conflicts of interests. In such isolated cases,
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 322
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
we took disciplinary measures in accordance with uniform internal standards and also pursued claims for
damages where there were sufficient prospects of success. In 2024, violations of our Code of Conduct
led to termination of employment in a total of 67 cases (2023: 48). This related to various groups of
employees, including executives.
G1-4
In the reporting year, there were no convictions for violations of anticorruption and antibribery
regulations.
BASF’s Corporate Audit unit monitors adherence to compliance principles, covering all areas in which
compliance violations could occur. It checks that employees uphold regulations and make sure that the
established processes, procedures and controls are appropriate and sufficient to minimize potential risks
or preclude violations in the first place. In 2024, Corporate Audit conducted and documented 68 such
audits Group-wide (2023: 64). Our compliance management system is also regularly audited by the
Corporate Audit unit, most recently in December 2022. Overall, the audit results speak for the
effectiveness of the compliance management system.
In 2024, BASF revised its global requirements on business partner due diligence and also introduced an
IT application to support business partner screening. We conduct ongoing risk-based reviews of our
business relationships worldwide for signs of corrupt behavior, human rights violations, or
noncompliance with internationally recognized ESG standards. BASF compliance experts evaluate
system alerts and initiate appropriate control measures. The results are then documented. A dedicated
global Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 295) also applies to our suppliers, which covers compliance
with environmental, social and corporate governance standards, among other requirements.
Furthermore, as part of our trade control processes, we continuously check whether persons, companies
or organizations appear on sanction lists due to suspicious or illegal activities and whether there are
business processes with business partners from or in countries under embargo.
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 323
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Appendix to the (Consolidated) Sustainability Statement
ESRS SBM-3 ESRS 2 IRO-2
The table below illustrates the data points in ESRS 2 and topical ESRSs that derive from other EU legislation.
Benchmark
Disclosure SFDRa Pillar 3b Regulationc EU Climated
Requirement Data point reference reference reference Law reference Chapter/explanation Page
ESRS 2 GOV-1 21d Board’s gender diversity x x Corporate Governance Report 117, 128
ESRS 2 GOV-1 21e Percentage of board members who are Corporate Governance Report 128
x
independent
ESRS 2 GOV-4 30 Statement on due diligence x Sustainability Statement – General Disclosures 155
ESRS 2 SBM-1 40d (i) Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel Sustainability Statement – General Disclosures 157
x x x
activities
ESRS 2 SBM-1 40d (ii) Involvement in activities related to chemical Sustainability Statement – General Disclosures 157
x x
production
ESRS 2 SBM-1 40d (iii) Involvement in activities related to controversial Sustainability Statement – General Disclosures 157
x x
weapons
ESRS 2 SBM-1 40d (iv) Involvement in activities related to cultivation and Sustainability Statement – General Disclosures 157
x
production of tobacco
ESRS E1-1 14 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050 x Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 185
ESRS E1-1 16g Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 185
x x
Benchmarks
ESRS E1-4 34 GHG emission reduction targets x x x Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 194
ESRS E1-5 38 Energy consumption from fossil sources Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 198
disaggregated by sources (only high climate x
impact sectors)
ESRS E1-5 37 Energy consumption and mix x Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 198
ESRS E1-5 40 to 43 Energy intensity associated with activities in high Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 198
x
climate impact sectors
ESRS E1-6 44 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions x x x Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 200
ESRS E1-6 53 to 55 Gross GHG emissions intensity x x x Sustainability Statement – Climate Change 200
ESRS E1-7 56 GHG removals and carbon credits x Not applicable
ESRS E1-9 66 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate- Not applicable
x
related physical risks
ESRS E1-9 66a Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute Not applicable
x
and chronic physical risk
ESRS E1-9 66c Location of significant assets at material physical Not applicable
x
risk
ESRS E1-9 67c Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate Not applicable
x
assets by energy-efficiency classes
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 324
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Benchmark
Disclosure SFDRa Pillar 3b Regulationc EU Climated
Requirement Data point reference reference reference Law reference Chapter/explanation Page
ESRS E1-9 69 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- Not applicable
x
related opportunities
ESRS E2-4 28 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the Sustainability Statement – Pollution Prevention 216
E-PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release
x
and Transfer Register) emitted to air, water and
soil
ESRS E3-1 9 Water and marine resources x Sustainability Statement – Water 222
ESRS E3-1 13 Dedicated policy x Sustainability Statement – Water 223
ESRS E3-1 14 Sustainable oceans and seas x Not material
ESRS E3-4 28c Total water recycled and reused x Sustainability Statement – Water 229
ESRS E3-4 29 Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on Sustainability Statement – Water 230
x
own operations
ESRS 2 – SBM-3 – E4 16a (i) Sustainability Statement – Biodiversity and 236
x
Ecosystems
ESRS 2 – SBM-3 –E4 16b Sustainability Statement – Biodiversity and 231
x
Ecosystems
ESRS 2 – SBM-3 – E4 16c Sustainability Statement – Biodiversity and 245
x
Ecosystems
ESRS E4-2 24b Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies Sustainability Statement – Biodiversity and 241
x
Ecosystems
ESRS E4-2 24c Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies x Not material
ESRS E4-2 24d Policies to address deforestation Sustainability Statement – Biodiversity and 240
Ecosystems
ESRS E5-5 37d Nonrecycled waste Sustainability Statement – Resource Use and 255
x
Circular Economy
ESRS E5-5 39 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste Hazardous waste: Sustainability Statement – 256
x Resource Use and Circular Economy; radioactive
waste: not material
ESRS 2 SBM-3 – S1 14f Risk of incidents of forced labor x Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 274
ESRS 2 SBM-3 – S1 14g Risk of incidents of child labor x Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 274
ESRS S1-1 20 Human rights policy commitments x Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce From 272
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 325
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Benchmark
Disclosure SFDRa Pillar 3b Regulationc EU Climated
Requirement Data point reference reference reference Law reference Chapter/explanation Page
ESRS S1-1 21 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 274, 275,
fundamental International Labour Organization x 276, 279
Conventions 1 to 8
ESRS S1-1 22 Processes and measures for preventing trafficking Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 274
x
in human beings
ESRS S1-1 23 Workplace accident prevention policy or Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 278
x
management system
ESRS S1-3 32c Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms x Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 281
ESRS S1-14 88b + 88c Number of fatalities and number and rate of work- Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 290
x x
related accidents
ESRS S1-14 88e Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 290
x
or illness
ESRS S1-16 97a Unadjusted gender pay gap x x Not material
ESRS S1-16 97b Excessive CEO pay ratio x Not material
ESRS S1-17 103a Incidents of discrimination x Sustainability Statement – Own Workforce 290
ESRS S1-17 104a Nonrespect of UNGPs on Business and Human Not applicable
x x
Rights and OECD guidelines
ESRS 2 SBM3 – S2 11b Significant risk of child labor or forced labor in the Sustainability Statement – Workers in the Value 293
x
value chain Chain
ESRS S2-1 17 Human rights policy commitments Sustainability Statement – Workers in the Value 293
x
Chain
ESRS S2-1 18 Policies related to value chain workers Sustainability Statement – Workers in the Value 295
x
Chain
ESRS S2-1 19 Nonrespect of UNGPs on Business and Human Not applicable
x x
Rights and OECD guidelines
ESRS S2-1 19 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the Sustainability Statement – Workers in the Value 293
fundamental International Labour Organization x Chain
Conventions 1 to 8
ESRS S2-4 36 Human rights issues and incidents connected to Sustainability Statement – Workers in the Value 301
x
its upstream and downstream value chain Chain
ESRS S3-1 16 Human rights policy commitments x Sustainability Statement – Affected Communities 304
ESRS S3-1 17 Nonrespect of UNGPs on Business and Human Not applicable
x x
Rights, ILO Principles and OECD guidelines
ESRS S3-4 36 Human rights issues and incidents x Sustainability Statement – Affected Communities 310
ESRS S4-1 16 Policies related to consumers and end users x Not material
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 326
At a Glance Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Benchmark
Disclosure SFDRa Pillar 3b Regulationc EU Climated
Requirement Data point reference reference reference Law reference Chapter/explanation Page
ESRS S4-1 17 Nonrespect of UNGPs on Business and Human Not material
x x
Rights and OECD guidelines
ESRS S4-4 35 Human rights issues and incidents x Not material
ESRS G1-1 10b United Nations Convention against Corruption x Sustainability Statement – Business Conduct 319
ESRS G1-1 10d Protection of whistleblowers x Sustainability Statement – Business Conduct 322
ESRS G1-4 24a Fines for violation of anticorruption and antibribery Sustainability Statement – Business Conduct 323
x x
laws
ESRS G1-4 24b Standards of anticorruption and antibribery x Sustainability Statement – Business Conduct 320
a Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability-related disclosure requirements in the financial services sector (Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation, SFDR)
b Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 Text with EEA relevance (Capital Requirements Regulation)
c Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/17/EU and Regulation
(EU) No 596/2014
d Regulation (EU) 2021/1119 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 2021 establishing the framework for achieving climate neutrality and amending Regulations (EC) No 401/2009 and (EU) 2018/1999 (“European Climate Law”)
BASF Report 2024 Sustainability Statement 327
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
2
BASF Report 2024
Consolidated Financial
Statements
Statement of Income 329
Statement of Income and Expense Recognized in
Equity 330
Balance Sheet 331
Statement of Cash Flows 333
Statement of Changes in Equity 334
Notes 336
1 Summary of accounting policies 336 19 Other comprehensive income 396
2 Scope of consolidation 343 20 Liabilities 397
3 Acquisitions and divestitures 344 21 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 400
4 BASF Group list of shares held 349 22 Other provisions 409
5 Reporting by segment and region 350 23 Risks from litigation and claims 411
6 Earnings per share 357 24 Other financial obligations 412
7 Sales revenue 358 25 Supplementary information on financial instruments 412
8 Functional costs 360 26 Capital structure management and statement of
9 Other operating income and expenses 361 cash flows 430
10 Investments accounted for using the equity 27 Personnel expenses and employees 435
method and other financial assets 363 28 Share price-based compensation programs and
11 Financial result 371 BASF incentive share program 436
12 Income taxes 372 29 Compensation of the Board of Executive Directors
13 Noncontrolling interests 377 and Supervisory Board 440
14 Fixed assets 378 30 Related party transactions 440
15 Leases 388 31 Services provided by the external auditor 442
16 Inventories 390 32 Declaration of Conformity with the German
17 Receivables and miscellaneous assets 391 Corporate Governance Code 443
18 Capital, reserves and retained earnings 394 33 Non-adjusting events after the balance sheet date 443
BASF Report 2024 Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 328
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Statement of Income
BASF Group
Statement of income
Explanations
Million € in Note 2024 2023
Sales revenue 7 65,260 68,902
Cost of sales 8 -48,174 -52,200
Gross profit on sales 17,085 16,702
Selling expenses 8 -8,782 -8,788
General administrative expenses 8 -1,466 -1,506
Research and development expenses 8 -2,061 -2,130
Other operating income 9 1,374 1,990
Other operating expenses 9 -4,120 -4,221
Income from integral companies accounted for using the equity method 10 2 192
Income from operations (EBIT) 5 2,033 2,240
Income from non-integral companies accounted for using the equity method 651 -114
Income from other shareholdings 76 55
Expenses from other shareholdings -129 -141
Net income from shareholdings 10 598 -200
Interest income 371 322
Interest expenses -929 -860
Interest result -558 -538
Other financial income 267 199
Other financial expenses -271 -281
Other financial result -5 -82
Financial result 11 -563 -620
Income before income taxes 2,069 1,420
Income taxes 12 -616 -1,041
Income after taxes 1,453 379
of which attributable to shareholders of BASF SE (net income) 1,298 225
attributable to noncontrolling interests 13 155 154
Earnings per share (€) 6 1.45 0.25
Dilution effect (€) 6 – –
Diluted earnings per share (€) 6 1.45 0.25
BASF Report 2024 Statement of Income 329
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Statement of Income and Expense Recognized in Equity
BASF Group
Statement of comprehensive incomea
Million € 2024 2023
Income after taxes 1,453 379
Remeasurement of defined benefit plansb 1,727 -674
Deferred taxes on the remeasurement of defined benefit plans -273 100
Investments accounted for using the equity method – share of nonreclassifiable gains/losses (after
taxes) 23 -196
Nonreclassifiable gains/losses 1,477 -771
Unrealized gains/losses from debt instruments measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income – 11
Reclassification of realized gains/losses from debt instruments measured at fair value recognized in
the statement of income -1 –
Unrealized gains/losses in connection with cash flow hedges 44 -78
Reclassification of realized gains/losses recognized in the statement of income in connection with
cash flow hedges -103 -13
Unrealized gains/losses from currency translation 632 -1,072
Reclassification of realized gains/losses from currency translation recognized in the statement of
income -10 –
Deferred taxes on reclassifiable gains/losses 7 18
Investments accounted for using the equity method – share of reclassifiable gains/losses (after
taxes) 70 354
Investments accounted for using the equity method – reclassification of realized gains/losses
recognized in the statement of income 45 –
Reclassifiable gains/losses 684 -780
Other comprehensive income after taxes 2,161 -1,551
of which attributable to shareholders of BASF SE 2,107 -1,477
attributable to noncontrolling interests 54 -74
Comprehensive income 3,613 -1,172
of which attributable to shareholders of BASF SE 3,405 -1,252
attributable to noncontrolling interests 209 80
a For more information on other comprehensive income, see Note 19 on page 396
b For more information on the remeasurement of defined benefit plans, see Note 21 from page 400 onward
BASF Report 2024 Statement of Income and Expense Recognized in Equity 330
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Balance Sheet
BASF Group
Assets
Explanations
Million € in Note Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Intangible assets 14 11,983 12,216
Property, plant and equipment 14 27,197 24,080
Integral investments accounted for using the equity method 10 2,399 2,054
Non-integral investments accounted for using the equity method 10 3,411 4,518
Other financial assets 10 1,165 1,099
Deferred tax assets 12 574 617
Receivables for income taxesa 88 80
Other receivables and miscellaneous assetsa 17 2,366 1,258
Noncurrent assets 49,183 45,923
Inventories 16 13,681 13,876
Accounts receivable, trade 17 10,393 10,414
Receivables for income taxesa 740 717
Other receivables and miscellaneous assetsa 3,256 3,787
Marketable securities 67 53
Cash and cash equivalents 26 2,914 2,624
Assets of disposal groups 3 181 –
Current assets 31,232 31,472
Total assets 80,415 77,395
a Since the 2024 business year, receivables for income taxes, which were previously included in other receivables and miscellaneous assets, have been reported separately.
The prior-year figures have been adjusted.
BASF Report 2024 Balance Sheet 331
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Equity and liabilities
Explanations
Million € in Note Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Subscribed capital 18 1,142 1,142
Capital reserves 18 3,139 3,139
Retained earnings 18 30,883 32,517
Other comprehensive income 19 435 -1,521
Equity attributable to shareholders of BASF SE 35,599 35,277
Noncontrolling interests 13 1,284 1,368
Equity 36,884 36,646
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 21 2,403 2,896
Deferred tax liabilities 12 1,005 1,140
Income tax provisions 335 335
Other provisions 22 1,883 1,684
Financial indebtedness 2 0 19,122 17,085
Other liabilities 20 1,744 1,739
Noncurrent liabilities 26,492 24,879
Accounts payable, trade 20 6,923 6,741
Provisions 22 3,320 3,214
Liabilities for income taxesa 12 404 442
Financial indebtedness 2 0 2,639 2,182
Other liabilitiesa 20 3,714 3,291
Liabilities of disposal groups 3 39 –
Current liabilities 17,039 15,871
Total equity and liabilities 80,415 77,395
a In the previous year, liabilities for income taxes were reported with liabilities for other taxes. As of the 2024 business year, these are recognized under other liabilities. The
prior-year figure was adjusted accordingly by the amount for other taxes (€359 million).
BASF Report 2024 Balance Sheet 332
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Statement of Cash Flows
BASF Group
Statement of cash flows
Million € 2024 2023
Net income 1,298 225
Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assetsa 4,648 4,941
Equity-accounted income -654 -78
Other noncash items 390 3
Gains (-) / losses (+) from the disposal of noncurrent assets and securities -51 -103
Dividends received from equity-accounted investments 442 622
Changes in inventories 222 1,896
Changes in accounts receivable, trade 42 1,443
Changes in accounts payable, trade 96 -1,544
Changes in provisions 204 -484
Changes in other operating assets 383 1,918
Changes in other operating liabilities and pension provisions -76 -730
Cash flows from operating activities 6,946 8,111
Payments made for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -6,198 -5,395
Payments made for financial assets and securities -749 -1,042
Payments made for investments in equity instruments -646 -57
Payments made for acquisitions -202 -5
Payments received from divestitures 75 32
Payments received from the disposal of noncurrent assets and securities 808 1,439
Payments received from the disposal of equity instruments 1,831 36
Cash flows from investing activities -5,081 -4,991
Capital repayments and other equity transactions -46 -70
Additions to financial and similar liabilities 6,362 9,503
Repayment of financial and similar liabilities -4,579 -9,244
Dividends paid -3,284 -3,094
Cash flows from financing activities -1,547 -2,905
Cash-effective changes in cash and cash equivalents 318 215
Changes in cash and cash equivalents from foreign exchange rates and changes in the scope of
consolidation -21 -106
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,624 2,516
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the yearb 2,921 2,624
a This item includes depreciation and amortization, impairments and reversals of impairments.
b In 2024, cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows differ from the value in the balance sheet due to the existence of disposal groups.
BASF Report 2024 Statement of Cash Flows 333
Statement of Changes in Equity
BASF Group
Statement of changes in equitya
Million €
debircsbuS
latipac latipaC
sevreser deniateR sgninrae
denifed
fo
tnemerusaemeR
snalp
tifeneb
ycnerruC noitalsnart
tnemerusaeM
seitiruces
fo
eulav
riaf
ta
wolf
hsaC segdeh
evisneherpmoc
rehtO emocni
ot
elbatubirtta
ytiuqE
ES
FSAB
fo
sredloherahs
gnillortnocnoN
stseretni
ytiuqE
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
January 1,
2024 1,142 3,139 32,517 -1,739 320 -167 65 -1,521 35,277 1,368 36,646
Dividends paid – – -3,035 – – – – – -3,035 -249b -3,284
Income after
taxes – – 1,298 – – – – – 1,298 155 1,453
Other
comprehensive
income after
taxes – – – 1,477 782 -1 -151 2,107 2,107 54 2,161
Gains and
losses on cash
flow hedges
and hedging
costs,
eliminated from
other
comprehensive
income not
affecting profit
and loss – – – – – – 38 38 38 – 38
Changes in
scope of
consolidation
and other
changes – – 103 -188 – – – -188 -86 -17 -103
Changes in
noncontrolling
interests – – – – – – – – – -26 -26
December 31,
2024 1,142 3,139 30,883 -451 1,102 -168 -48 435 35,599 1,285 36,884
a For more information on the items relating to equity, see Notes 18 and 19 from page 394 onward
b Including profit and loss transfers
BASF Report 2024 Statement of Changes in Equity 334
Statement of changes in equitya
Million €
debircsbuS
latipac latipaC
sevreser deniateR sgninrae
denifed
fo
tnemerusaemeR
snalp
tifeneb
ycnerruC noitalsnart
tnemerusaeM
seitiruces
fo
eulav
riaf
ta
wolf
hsaC segdeh
evisneherpmoc
rehtO emocni
ot
elbatubirtta
ytiuqE
ES
FSAB
fo
sredloherahs
gnillortnocnoN
stseretni
ytiuqE
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
January 1,
2023 1,144 3,147 35,453 -1,207 1,540 – -504 -171 39,573 1,350 40,923
Treasury
shares -2 2 -70 – – – – – -70 – -70
Dividends paid – – -3,035 – – – – – -3,035 -60b -3,095
Income after
taxes – – 225 – – – – – 225 154 379
Other
comprehensive
income after
taxes – – – -591 -1,220 -172 506 -1,477 -1,477 -74 -1,551
Gains and
losses on cash
flow hedges
and hedging
costs,
eliminated from
other
comprehensive
income not
affecting profit
and loss – – – – – – 64 64 64 – 64
Changes in
scope of
consolidation
and other
changes – -9 -58 59 – 5 – 64 -3 – -3
December 31,
2023 1,142 3,139 32,517 -1,739 320 -167 65 -1,521 35,277 1,368 36,646
a For more information on the items relating to equity, see Notes 18 and 19 from page 394 onward
b Including profit and loss transfers
BASF Report 2024 Statement of Changes in Equity 335
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Notes
BASF Group
1 Summary of accounting policies
1.1 General information
BASF SE (registered at the district trade register, or Amtsgericht, for Ludwigshafen am Rhein, number
HRB 6000) is a publicly listed corporation headquartered in Ludwigshafen am Rhein, Germany. Its official
address is Carl-Bosch-Str. 38, 67056 Ludwigshafen am Rhein, Germany.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of BASF SE as of December 31, 2024, have been prepared in
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS®) of the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB®) and section 315e (1) of the German Commercial Code (HGB). IFRSs are
generally only applied after they have been endorsed by the European Union. For the 2024 fiscal year, all
of the binding IFRSs and pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee (IFRIC®) were applied. The Consolidated Financial Statements are for the period from
January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024, and are presented in euros. They are written in German and
translated into English. All amounts, including the figures for previous years, are given in million euros
unless otherwise indicated.
Due to rounding, individual figures in this report may not add up to the totals shown and percentages
may not correspond exactly to the figures shown.
The individual financial statements of the consolidated companies are prepared as of the balance sheet
date of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business continuity is assumed. The accounting policies
applied are largely the same as those used in 2023.
On March 17, 2025, the Board of Executive Directors prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements,
submitted them to the Supervisory Board for review and approval, and released them for publication.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 336
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
1.2 Changes in accounting principles
Accounting policies applied for the first time in 2024
The amendments presented in the following table had no material effect on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of BASF SE.
Accounting policies applied for the first time in 2024
Date of
endorsement
Standard/interpretation Name of standard/interpretation or amendments Date of publication by the EU
Amendments to IFRS 16 Leases September 22, 2022 November 20, 2023
(Accounting of a Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback)
Amendments to IAS® 1 Presentation of Financial Statements December 19, 2023
– Classification of Liabilities as Current or Noncurrent January 23, 2020
– Deferral of Effective Date July 15, 2020
– Classification of Noncurrent Liabilities with Covenants October 31, 2022
Amendments to IAS 7 and Statement of Cash Flows/Financial Instruments: Disclosures May 25, 2023 May 15, 2024
IFRS 7 (Disclosure Requirements in Connection with Supplier Finance
Arrangements)
IFRSs and IFRICs not yet to be considered but already endorsed by the EU
The effects on the BASF Group financial statements of the IFRSs and IFRICs not yet in force in 2024 but
already endorsed by the European Union were reviewed. The amendments are unlikely to have a material
impact on the reporting of BASF and were not adopted early.
IFRSs and IFRICs not yet to be considered but already endorsed by the EU
Name of standard/interpretation or Date of Mandatory date of
Standard/interpretation amendments Date of publication endorsement initial application
Amendments to IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign August 15, 2023 November 12, 2024 January 1, 2025
Exchange Rates
(Determination of Exchange Rates in
the Event of Lack of Exchangeability)
BASF Report 2024 Notes 337
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
IFRSs and IFRICs not yet to be considered and not yet endorsed by the EU
The IASB issued further amendments to standards and interpretations which are still subject to EU
endorsement and whose application is not yet mandatory. The effect of application of IFRS 18 is being
reviewed. The introduction of IFRS 19 does not affect the Consolidated Financial Statements of BASF SE
as BASF SE does not fall within the scope of application of this standard. BASF falls within the scope of
the amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 relating to nature-dependent electricity contracts. The resulting
changes expected for physical and virtual power purchase agreements are currently being reviewed. No
significant changes to current accounting practices are expected for physical PPAs. For virtual PPAs, an
increase in hedge accounting is considered possible. The other amendments are not expected to have a
material effect on BASF SE’s Consolidated Financial Statements. With the exception of the additions to
IFRS 9 and IFRS 7, BASF does not plan on early adoption of the described amendments.
IFRSs and IFRICs not yet to be considered and not yet endorsed by the EU
Expected date of
Standard/interpretation Name of standard/interpretation or amendments Date of publication initial application
Introduction of IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements April 9, 2024 January 1, 2027
(Replaces policies under the current IAS 1 and introduces new
disclosure requirements)
Introduction of IFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures May 9, 2024 January 1, 2027
(Reduced disclosure requirements for eligible subsidiaries)
Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments / Financial Instruments: Disclosures January 1, 2026
and IFRS 7 – Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of May 30, 2024
Financial Instruments
– Contracts Referencing Nature-Dependent Electricity December 18, 2024
Annual Improvements to Amendments to July 18, 2024 January 1, 2026
IFRS Accounting – IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial
Standards – Volume 11 Reporting Standards (Hedge Accounting by a First-Time
Adopter)
– IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Gain or Loss on
Derecognition) Guidance on Implementing IFRS 7
– IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (Derecognition of Lease
Liabilities / Transaction Price)
– IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (Determination
of a “De Facto Agent”)
– IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (Cost Method)
1.3 Group accounting principles
Scope of consolidation: The scope of consolidation is based on the application of the standards IFRS
10 and 11 and IAS 28.
According to IFRS 10, a group consists of a parent entity and the subsidiaries controlled by the parent.
“Control” of an investee assumes the simultaneous fulfillment of the following three criteria:
– The parent company holds decision-making power over the relevant activities of the investee
– The parent company has rights to variable returns from the investee
– The parent company can use its decision-making power to affect the variable returns
Fulfillment of these three criteria is analyzed based on the corporate governance structure of the
companies.
According to IFRS 11, which regulates the accounting of joint arrangements, a distinction must be made
between joint ventures and joint operations. In the case of a joint venture, the parties that have joint
control of a legally independent company have rights to the net assets of that arrangement. In joint
operations, the parties that have joint control have direct rights to the assets and obligations for the
BASF Report 2024 Notes 338
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
liabilities relating to the arrangement. This requirement is particularly fulfilled if the production output of
the joint arrangement is almost entirely transferred to the partners, through which the partners guarantee
the joint arrangements’ ongoing financing.
Companies whose corporate governance structures classify them as joint arrangements are analyzed to
determine if they meet the criteria for joint ventures or joint operations in accordance with IFRS 11. If the
joint arrangement is structured as a separate vehicle, its legal form, the contractual arrangements and all
other facts and circumstances are reviewed.
In addition to BASF SE, the Consolidated Financial Statements include all material subsidiaries on a fully
consolidated and all material joint operations on a proportionally consolidated basis. Companies of minor
importance for the presentation of a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of
operations, are not consolidated, but rather are reported under other shareholdings (for more
information, see Note 25.4, footnote a on page 420). The aggregate assets and equity of these
companies amount to less than 1% of the corresponding value at Group level.
Joint ventures and associated companies are accounted for using the equity method in the Consolidated
Financial Statements in accordance with IAS 28. Associated companies are entities that are not
subsidiaries, joint ventures or joint operations, and over whose operating and financial policies significant
influence can be exercised. In general, this applies to companies in which BASF has an investment of
between 20% and 50%. Associated companies and joint ventures that are fully or predominantly
allocated to operating divisions are classified as integral because they are integrated into the value chain
of the respective division; are controlled by the divisions; and they generate their income in close
cooperation with the other assets of the BASF Group and/or of these divisions. Equity-accounted income
from integral joint ventures or associated companies is reported as part of income from operations
(EBIT). Equity-accounted income from non-integral associated companies is reported in net income from
shareholdings (for more information, see Note 10 from page 363 onward).
Consolidation methods: Assets and liabilities of consolidated companies are uniformly recognized and
measured in accordance with the principles described herein. For companies accounted for using the
equity method, material deviations in measurement resulting from the application of other accounting
principles than those applied by BASF are adjusted.
Transactions between consolidated companies as well as intercompany profits resulting from trade
between consolidated companies are eliminated in full. Sales and material other balances and
transactions between joint operations and fully consolidated Group companies are also eliminated.
Material intercompany profits and losses related to companies accounted for using the equity method
are eliminated.
Capital consolidation is conducted on the acquisition date according to the purchase method. Initially, all
assets, liabilities and additional intangible assets that are to be capitalized are measured at fair value
regardless of the scope of any noncontrolling interests. Subsequently, the cost of acquiring the company
is compared with the proportional share of the fair value of the net assets acquired. The resulting positive
differences are capitalized as goodwill. Negative differences are reviewed once more, then recognized
directly in the income statement.
Noncontrolling interests are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition proportional to the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed (partial goodwill method).
The acquisition of shares in companies already controlled by BASF or included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements as a joint arrangement is treated as a transaction between shareholders if it does
not result in a change in the consolidation method.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 339
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The incidental acquisition costs of a business combination are recognized in the income statement under
other operating expenses.
Foreign currency translation: The cost of assets acquired in foreign currencies and revenue from sales
in foreign currencies are determined by the exchange rate on the date the transaction is recognized.
Foreign currency receivables and liabilities are valued at the exchange rates on the balance sheet date.
Changes in assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency translation are recognized in the income
statement. They are then reported under other operating income or expenses, other financial result, and,
in the case of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, in other
comprehensive income.
Translation of foreign currency financial statements: The translation of foreign currency financial
statements depends on the functional currency of the consolidated companies. For companies whose
functional currency is not the euro, translation into the reporting currency is based on the closing rate
method: Balance sheet items are translated into euros using closing rates on the balance sheet date;
expenses and income are translated into euros at monthly average rates and accumulated for the year.
The difference between a company’s equity translated at historical rates at the time of acquisition or
retention and its equity translated at closing rates on the balance sheet date is reported under other
comprehensive income (translation adjustments) and is recognized in the income statement only upon
the disposal of the company or a foreign business.
For certain companies outside the eurozone or U.S. dollar zone, the euro or U.S. dollar is the functional
currency (among others, BASF Tuerk Kimya Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Sti., Istanbul, Türkiye, and BASF
Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina). In such cases, financial statements prepared in the local
currency are translated into the functional currency using the temporal method: All nonmonetary assets
and related depreciation and amortization as well as equity are translated at the exchange rate applying
to the respective transactions. All other balance sheet items are translated using closing rates on the
balance sheet date; other expenses and income are translated at monthly average rates. The resulting
translation differences are recognized in the income statement under other operating income or
expenses. If necessary, financial statements in the functional currency are translated into the
presentation currency according to the closing rate method.
Selected exchange rates
EUR 1 equals Closing rates Average rates
Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023 2024 2023
Brazil (BRL) 6.43 5.36 5.83 5.40
China (CNY) 7.58 7.85 7.79 7.66
Japan (JPY) 163.06 156.33 163.85 151.99
Malaysia (MYR) 4.65 5.08 4.95 4.93
Mexico (MXN) 21.55 18.72 19.83 19.18
Switzerland (CHF) 0.94 0.93 0.95 0.97
South Korea (KRW) 1,532.15 1,433.66 1,475.40 1,412.88
United States (USD) 1.04 1.11 1.08 1.08
United Kingdom (GBP) 0.83 0.87 0.85 0.87
BASF Report 2024 Notes 340
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
1.4 Accounting policies
The accounting policies for the individual items in the balance sheet and the income statement are
presented in the respective sections of the Notes.
Business combinations: In business combinations, the acquired assets and liabilities are recognized at
fair value on the date the acquirer effectively obtains control. The fair value of acquired assets and
assumed liabilities at the date of acquisition, as well as the useful lives of the acquired assets, are largely
based on projected cash flows. Actual cash flows can deviate significantly from those. Independent
external appraisals are typically used for the purchase price allocation of material business combinations.
Valuations in the course of business combinations are based on existing information as of the acquisition
date.
Use of estimates and assumptions in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements
The carrying amount of assets, liabilities and provisions, contingent liabilities and other financial
obligations reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements depends on the use of estimates,
assumptions and discretionary scope. Specific estimates or assumptions used in individual accounting
or valuation methods are disclosed in their respective sections of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. They are based on the circumstances and estimates on the balance sheet date and thus
affect the amounts of income and expenses shown for the reporting periods presented. These
assumptions primarily relate to the determination of discounted cash flows in the context of impairment
tests and purchase price allocations; the useful lives of depreciable property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets; the carrying amount of shareholdings; and the measurement of provisions for items
such as employee benefits, warranties, trade discounts, environmental protection or the extent of
recognition of assets, liabilities and provisions for taxes. Although uncertainty is appropriately
incorporated in the valuation factors, actual results can differ from these estimates. Furthermore,
extraordinary challenges resulting from current geopolitical and economic developments are also
considered. Current inflation developments were taken into account both in the measurement of pension
provisions and other provisions as well as in the fixed asset impairment tests.
Climate and sustainability-related developments: The chemical industry is resource-intensive. BASF is
committed to the Paris Climate Agreement. Using resources as efficiently and responsibly as possible
and the concept of a circular economy are firmly embedded in BASF’s strategy and its actions. BASF
pursues clearly defined targets to reduce CO as well as regarding the use of renewable and recycled
2
raw materials. In this context, BASF always strives to employ raw materials more efficiently and improve
production processes as well as to continually seek ways to use nonfossil, renewable or recycled
feedstocks. Despite the current global political situation, the path to climate neutrality is resolutely being
pursued (for more information on electricity supply contracts, see Note 25 from page 412 onward).
BASF is exposed to physical and transition climate-related risks. Physical climate risks are the direct
consequences of extreme weather scenarios in the form of floods, droughts, hurricanes, extreme rainfall
or heat. These can cause damage to assets, interrupt deliveries to customers or have adverse effects on
the supply of raw materials and precursors to plants. BASF responds to risks related to weather
scenarios by adapting operational processes, for example in the area of logistics, by investing in assets
and infrastructure or by maintaining broad insurance coverage.
Transition risks are risks that arise from the transition to a low-emission economy. These can arise from
developments aimed at preventing or reversing damage to the climate or to nature. As an energy-
intensive company, BASF expects, among other things, rising energy and CO prices as part of the
2
structural transition. BASF plans to invest more in the green transformation. An initial pilot project
includes the use of an electrically heated steam cracker furnace. In addition, a planned heat pump, the
construction of which is being funded by the European Union’s “NextGenerationEU” and the German
Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection based on a decision by the German Bundestag,
BASF Report 2024 Notes 341
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
should enable CO -free steam generation and, in turn, save up to 100,000 tons of greenhouse gas
2
emissions annually. The transition also creates opportunities, for example through increasing demand for
bio-based products, insulation foams for buildings, coolants and battery materials as well as better
circular economy and climate protection solutions. The market-oriented approach anchored in the
strategy is intended to enable BASF to leverage these opportunities and support the green
transformation of various customer industries in a differentiated manner by prioritizing investments and
projects with a sustainability focus according to customer demand and willingness to pay.
Taking into account transition risks and other developments, an analysis was conducted on the
profitability of the production site in Ludwigshafen, Germany, using different market development
scenarios – regarding, for example, demand development, export opportunities and sustainability
regulations – in order to develop a vision for the site. This vision provides a strategic direction for the
structural and sustainable development of the Ludwigshafen production site and defines ambitious
profitability targets. To this end, existing assets were first evaluated with regard to market developments.
This showed that all important value chains can compete in their respective markets and that the majority
of plants at the Ludwigshafen site are competitive in the short to long term.
Climate-related risks are taken into account in estimates and discretionary decisions when preparing the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Transition and physical risks are assessed on an ongoing basis and
can, for example, have an impact on useful lives and residual carrying amounts of fixed assets, the
valuation of provisions for environmental or restoration obligations, the valuation of inventories or growth
rates in goodwill impairment tests.
The transition to electromobility will have a negative long-term impact on the emissions catalyst
business. This development is reflected in a negative long-term growth rate in the goodwill impairment
test of the Catalysts (excluding battery materials) cash-generating unit. Other BASF businesses will
benefit from this transformation; for example, demand for innovative lightweight components and battery
materials will grow. In the short and medium term, however, lower demand is expected, particularly in the
battery materials market, which resulted in impairments on property, plant and equipment.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 342
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
2 Scope of consolidation
Scope of consolidation
South
America,
Of which North Africa,
Number of companies Europe Germany America Asia Pacific Middle East 2024 2023
As of January 1 138 44 36 73 22 269 257
of which proportionally
consolidated 7 – – 2 – 9 9
First-time consolidationsa 12 6 – – 1 13 15
of which proportionally
consolidated – – – – – – –
Deconsolidationsb 2 – 1 1 1 5 3
of which proportionally
consolidated – – – – – – –
As of December 31 148 50 35 72 22 277 269
of which proportionally
consolidated 7 – – 2 – 9 9
a Acquisitions, newly established companies, or reclassification due to increased importance
b Divestitures, mergers, liquidations, or downgrades due to decreased importance
In 2024, eight companies were included in the scope of consolidation for the first time due to their
increased importance as well as one newly founded company. Of these companies, eight were in Europe
(two of those in Germany) and one in South America, Africa, Middle East. In connection with the
purchase of 49% of the shares in Vattenfall's Nordlicht 1 and 2 wind farm projects, four further
companies with headquarters in Germany were newly added in the scope of consolidation and another
company based in Germany was consolidated for the first time using the equity method.
Four companies, two of which with headquarters in Europe and one each with headquarters in North
America and in Asia Pacific, were liquidated. Another company based in South America, Africa, Middle
East merged.
In the previous year, eleven companies were included in the scope of consolidation for the first time in
connection with the carve-out of the Environmental Catalyst and Metal Solutions business unit. Of these
companies, four were in Europe (one of those in Germany), three in North America, two in South America,
Africa, Middle East and two in Asia Pacific. Three companies with headquarters in Europe (one of those
in Germany) were added to the scope of consolidation in connection with the expansion of the battery
materials business. One company with headquarters in Asia Pacific was included for the first time due to
its increased importance.
Three companies, two of which with headquarters in Germany and one in South America, Africa, Middle
East, merged in 2023.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 343
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Overview of impact of changes in the scope of consolidation (excluding acquisitions and divestitures)
2024 2023
Million € %a Million € %a
Sales 0 0.0 – –
Noncurrent assets 4 0.0 -2 0.0
of which property, plant and equipment 1 0.0 – –
Current assets -3 0.0 0 0.0
of which cash and cash equivalents 0 0.0 2 0.1
Assets 1 0.0 -2 0.0
Equity 1 0.0 1 0.0
Noncurrent liabilities 0 0.0 – –
of which financial indebtedness – – – –
Current liabilities 0 0.0 -3 0.0
of which financial indebtedness – – – –
Total equity and liabilities 1 0.0 -2 0.0
Other financial obligations – – – –
a Proportional share in relation to the BASF Group
The proportionally consolidated joint operations include, in particular:
– Ellba C.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands, which is jointly operated with Shell for the production of propylene
oxide and styrene monomer
– BASF DOW HPPO Production BVBA, Antwerp, Belgium, which is jointly operated with Dow for the
production of propylene oxide
– Butachimie SNC, Chalampé, France, which is jointly operated with Invista for the production of
adiponitrile (ADN) and hexamethylenediamine (HMD)
– Alsachimie S.A.S., Chalampé, France, which is jointly operated with Domo Chemicals for the
production of adipic acid
In addition to the fully and proportionally consolidated companies, 24 joint ventures and/or associated
companies (previous year: 21) were consolidated using the equity method as of December 31, 2024.
A list of the companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements and of all companies in which
BASF SE has a shareholding as required by section 313(2) of the German Commercial Code (HGB) is
provided in the list of shares held (for more information, see Note 4 on page 349 onward).
3 Acquisitions and divestitures
Acquisitions
In 2024, BASF acquired the following activities:
– On July 31, 2023, BASF and Huntsman, together with their Chinese partner companies, announced
the separation of their joint MDI production in the associated company Shanghai Lianheng Isocyanate
Co., Ltd. BASF took over one of the two MDI plants, including production plants for the precursors
aniline and nitrobenzene as well as the employees in production. The transaction falls within the scope
of IFRS 3 and was completed on January 31, 2024. The purchase price was €192 million and was
cash-effective in full. It is attributable to the acquired plants and, to a lesser extent, to inventories.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 344
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– Furthermore, BASF acquired 49% of shares of a shareholding in Vattenfall’s Nordlicht 1 and 2 wind
farm projects on April 22, 2024. The acquired assets do not constitute a business according to IFRS
3.2b. The transaction is therefore not being reported as an acquisition and is not included in the
following table. The acquired shares are accounted for using the equity method. The purchase price
was €501 million and was cash-effective in full.
No material activities were acquired in 2023.
The compensation component agreed as part of the establishment of BASF Shanshan Battery Materials
Co., Ltd., Changsha, China, in 2021 was realized in the amount of €18 million in 2023.
A purchase price adjustment for the polyamide business acquired in 2020 led to a payment of €5 million
in 2023.
The following overview shows the effects of the acquisitions in 2024 and 2023 on the Consolidated
Financial Statements. When acquisitions resulted in the transfer of assets or the assumption of additional
liabilities, the effects are shown as net amounts.
Effects of acquisitions
2024 2023
Million € %a Million € %a
Goodwill 0 0.0 – –
Other intangible assets 1 0.0 – –
Property, plant and equipment 188 0.7 – –
Financial assets – – – –
Other noncurrent assets – – – –
Noncurrent assets 188 0.4 – –
Current assets 16 0.1 -18 -0.1
of which cash and cash equivalents – – – –
Assets 205 0.3 -18 -0.0
Equity – – -18 -0.1
of which noncontrolling interests – – – –
Noncurrent liabilities – – – –
of which financial indebtedness – – – –
Current liabilities 3 0.0 -5 -0.0
of which financial indebtedness – – – –
Total equity and liabilities 3 0.0 -23 -0.0
Payments made for acquisitions 202 5
Additions of cash and cash equivalents – –
Payments made for acquisitions according to statement
of cash flows 202 5
a Proportional share in relation to the BASF Group
Divestitures
In 2024, BASF sold the following activity:
– On September 3, 2024, BASF completed the sale of the exploration and production business (E&P
business) of the Wintershall Dea AG oil and gas company (Wintershall Dea GmbH as of September
23, 2024), Kassel/Hamburg, Germany, to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom. The E&P
business includes assets used in production and development, exploration rights and Wintershall
Dea’s carbon storage licenses. In exchange, Wintershall Dea shareholders – BASF (72.7%) and
LetterOne (27.3%) – received a cash consideration totaling $1.78 billion (BASF share: $1.29 billion),
BASF Report 2024 Notes 345
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
including a purchase price adjustment, and new shares issued by Harbour equating to a total
shareholding of 54.5% in the expanded Harbour company (BASF share: 39.6%). The non-integral
investment in Harbour Energy, accounted for using the equity method, was initially recognized at the
closing price of the shares on September 3, 2024, plus directly attributable incidental acquisition
costs. Wintershall Dea’s headquarters, which are scheduled to be closed, its employees as well as the
Russia-related business, for which significant federal guarantees exist, were not part of the
transaction. The equity method for the shares in Wintershall Dea will be continued accordingly. Income
from the sale of the E&P business to Harbour is reported in income from non-integral companies
accounted for using the equity method. The disposal gain is summarized in the following table:
Calculation of the disposal gain from the sale of Wintershall Dea’s exploration and production (E&P)
business
Million € Sept. 3, 2024
Cash payment received / shares in Harbour Energy plc and directly attributable acquisition-related costs 3,466
Disposed net assets -2,956
Other income and expenses related to the divestiture -120
Disposal gain before taxes 390
Disposal gain after taxes 386
In 2023, BASF sold the following activity:
– On August 31, 2023, BASF completed the sale of its production site in De Meern, Netherlands, to
IQatalyst B.V., Luxembourg, a subsidiary of ASC Investment Sarl, Luxembourg. The transaction mainly
covered facilities for the production of nickel-based catalysts, including the associated infrastructure
and inventories. The production site was part of the Catalysts division. The purchase price was
€13 million, and the after-tax disposal loss was €4 million.
The following overview shows the effects of the divestitures in 2024 and 2023 on the Consolidated
Financial Statements. The sales line item shows the year-on-year decline resulting from divestitures. The
impact on equity related mainly to gains and losses from divestitures. Payments received from
divestitures amounted to €1,244 million and mainly related to the Wintershall Dea transaction
(€1,169 million), as well as various smaller transactions and a purchase price adjustment for a transaction
from previous years.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 346
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Effects of divestitures
2024 2023
Million € %a Million € %a
Sales -86 -0.1 -212 -0.2
Noncurrent assets -683 -1.4 -30 -0.1
of which property, plant and equipment -12 -0.0 -21 -0.1
Current assets -25 -0.1 -12 -0.0
of which cash and cash equivalents – – – –
Assets -708 -0.9 -42 -0.1
Equity 496 1.3 -8 -0.0
Noncurrent liabilities -2 -0.0 -1 -0.0
of which financial indebtedness – – – –
Current liabilities 41 0.2 -1 -0.0
of which financial indebtedness – – – –
Total equity and liabilities 536 0.7 -9 -0.0
Payments received from divestitures 1,244 32
Further effects in connection with divestituresb -1,169 –
Payments received from divestitures according to
statement of cash flows 75 32
a Proportional share in relation to the BASF Group
b Includes project-related tax payments and derecognition of cash and cash equivalents. The sale of Wintershall Dea's E&P business to Harbour Energy in 2024 is not
reported under divestitures in the statement of cash flows, but as a disposal of equity instruments.
Agreed transactions and groups of assets and liabilities held for sale (disposal
groups)
– On December 21, 2024, BASF signed a binding agreement to sell its Food and Health Performance
Ingredients business in the Nutrition & Care segment, including the production site in Illertissen,
Germany, to Louis Dreyfus Company (LDC), Rotterdam, Netherlands. As part of the agreement,
approximately 300 BASF employees are expected to transfer to LDC as of the closing of the
transaction. Both parties have agreed not to disclose the financial details of the transaction. As of the
agreement on the sale, the affected assets and liabilities were reclassified to a disposal group. The
cumulative remeasurement effects of defined benefit plans attributable to the disposal group as of
December 31, 2024, recognized in other comprehensive income amounted to -€4 million.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 347
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Disposal group of Food and Health Performance Ingredients
Million € Dec. 31, 2024
Balance sheet
Goodwill -5
Other intangible assets -20
Property, plant and equipment -48
Integral investments accounted for using the equity method –
Non-integral investments accounted for using the equity method –
Other financial assets –
Deferred tax assets -1
Receivables for income taxes –
Other receivables and miscellaneous assets -1
Noncurrent assets -75
Inventories -46
Accounts receivable, trade 0
Receivables for income taxes –
Other receivables and miscellaneous assets 0
Marketable securities –
Cash and cash equivalents –
Current assets -46
Assets of the disposal group 121
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations -22
Deferred tax liabilities -3
Income tax provisions –
Other provisions 0
Financial indebtedness –
Other liabilities –
Noncurrent liabilities -25
Accounts payable, trade –
Provisions 0
Liabilities for income taxes –
Financial indebtedness –
Other liabilities –
Current liabilities –
Liabilities of the disposal group 25
Net assets 96
– On December 31, 2024, BASF signed a memorandum of understanding followed by an agreement on
February 7, 2025, to divest its shares in BASF Markor Chemical Manufacturing (Xinjiang) Co., Ltd. and
Markor Meiou Chemical (Xinjiang) Co., Ltd. in Korla, China. The companies operate production plants
for butanediol and PolyTHF in the Chemicals segment. Upon completion of the agreement, the
affected assets and liabilities were reclassified to a disposal group. The disposal proceeds are
expected to be below the carrying amount of net assets, so an impairment of €24 million was recorded
upon classifying this business as held for sale. The cumulative gains from currency translation
recognized in other comprehensive income attributable to the disposal group as of
December 31, 2024, amounted to €4 million.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 348
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Disposal group of BASF Markor Chemical Manufacturing (Xinjiang) Co., Ltd. and Markor Meiou
Chemical (Xinjiang) Co., Ltd.
Million € Dec. 31, 2024
Balance sheet
Goodwill –
Other intangible assets –
Property, plant and equipment -20
Integral investments accounted for using the equity method -16
Non-integral investments accounted for using the equity method –
Other financial assets –
Deferred tax assets -2
Receivables for income taxes –
Other receivables and miscellaneous assets -9
Noncurrent assets -47
Inventories -6
Accounts receivable, trade 0
Receivables for income taxes –
Other receivables and miscellaneous assets 0
Marketable securities –
Cash and cash equivalents -7
Current assets -13
Assets of the disposal group 60
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations –
Deferred tax liabilities -1
Income tax provisions –
Other provisions –
Financial indebtedness –
Other liabilities -7
Noncurrent liabilities -8
Accounts payable, trade -5
Provisions 0
Liabilities for income taxes 0
Financial indebtedness –
Other liabilities -1
Current liabilities -6
Liabilities of the disposal group 14
Net assets 46
4 BASF Group list of shares held pursuant to section 313(2) of the
German Commercial Code (HGB)
The list of consolidated companies and the complete list of all companies in which BASF SE holds
shares as required by section 313(2) HGB as well as information on the exemption of subsidiaries from
accounting and disclosure obligations are an integral component of the audited Consolidated Financial
Statements submitted to the German Company Register. The list of shares held is also published online.
»For more information, see basf.com/en/corporategovernance
BASF Report 2024 Notes 349
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
5 Reporting by segment and region
Accounting policies
The divisions are allocated to the segments based on their business models and according to their focal
points, customer groups, the focus of their innovations, their investment relevance and sustainability
aspects. Activities that are not allocated to any of the divisions are recorded under Other.
The same accounting rules are used for segment reporting as those used for the Group, which are
presented in these Notes. Transfers between the segments are generally executed at adjusted market-
based prices, taking into account the higher cost efficiency and lower risk of intragroup transactions.
Assets, as well as their depreciation and amortization, are allocated to the segments based on economic
control. Assets used by more than one segment are allocated according to the percentage of usage.
A new Differentiated Steering model was introduced at the beginning of 2024. Two new most important
financial key performance indicators were established for the BASF Group’s steering: income from
operations before depreciation, amortization and special items (EBITDA before special items) and free
cash flow. Accordingly, all segments are also measured by their absolute contribution to EBITDA before
special items. To manage cash flow at segment level, a specific indicator, segment cash flow, is used. It
includes the elements of free cash flow that can be managed by the operating divisions. In addition,
specific steering indicators were defined for selected segments.
EBITDA before special items is determined based on income from operations (EBIT), which is calculated
from gross profit on sales, selling expenses, general administrative expenses, research and development
expenses, other operating income and expenses, and income from integral companies accounted for
using the equity method. EBIT is adjusted for special items that may arise from the integration of
acquired businesses, from restructuring measures, gains or losses on divestitures and sales of
investments, as well as other expenses and income that may arise outside of ordinary business activities.
To determine EBITDA before special items, depreciation, amortization, impairments and reversals of
impairments on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are added to EBIT before special
items, provided they do not represent special items.
EBIT and EBIT before special items as well as EBITDA before special items are alternative performance
measures that are not defined under IFRS and are to be considered complementary to the indicators
defined by IFRS (for more information on changes in the steering concept, see the Combined
Management’s Report from page 28 onward).
Explanation of segments
The BASF Group’s business is run by 11 divisions, structured in six segments:
– Chemicals: Petrochemicals, Intermediates
– Materials: Performance Materials, Monomers
– Industrial Solutions: Dispersions & Resins, Performance Chemicals
– Nutrition & Care: Care Chemicals, Nutrition & Health
– Surface Technologies: Catalysts, Coatings
– Agricultural Solutions: Agricultural Solutions
As part of its strategic portfolio management, BASF started differentiating between its core and
standalone businesses with the introduction of the “Winning Ways” strategy in September 2024. The
core businesses, including the Chemicals, Materials, Industrial Solutions and Nutrition & Care segments,
benefit from their deep integration into the value chains and the Production Verbund. The standalone
BASF Report 2024 Notes 350
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
businesses comprise the Surface Technologies and Agricultural Solutions segments, serve specific
industries and compete with pure-play competitors.
The Chemicals segment comprises the Petrochemicals and Intermediates divisions and is the
cornerstone of BASF’s Verbund structure. The segment mainly serves customers in downstream
industries, especially in the chemical and plastics industries. In addition, it supplies the other segments
with basic chemicals and intermediates, thereby contributing to the organic growth of the BASF Group.
The segment’s competitiveness is strengthened by process and product innovations as well as the
development of sustainable technologies.
The Materials segment is composed of the Performance Materials and the Monomers divisions. The
segment offers advanced materials and their precursors for new applications and systems. Its product
portfolio includes isocyanates and polyamides as well as inorganic basic products and specialties for
plastics and plastics processing. In addition to specific technological knowledge, industry expertise and
customer proximity, particularly products that contribute to the circular economy as well as sustainable
production methods help differentiate BASF from its competitors in this segment.
The Industrial Solutions segment consists of the Dispersions & Resins and the Performance Chemicals
divisions. This segment develops and markets ingredients and additives for industrial applications, such
as polymer dispersions, resins, additives, electronic materials and antioxidants. Its customers are located
in various key industries, such as the automotive, plastics and electronics industries. The focus of
research and development is on increasing efficiency in the use of resources and in production
structures, as well as on developing more sustainable products and production processes. Since
January 1, 2025, the chemical and refining catalysts business has been reported as part of the
Performance Chemicals division in the Industrial Solutions segment. It was previously part of the
Catalysts division in the Surface Technologies segment.
The Nutrition & Care segment comprises the Care Chemicals division and the Nutrition & Health
division. This segment produces ingredients for consumer applications in the areas of nutrition, home
and personal care. Its customers include food and feed producers as well as the pharmaceutical,
cosmetics and the detergent and cleaner industries. The increasing demand for more sustainable
consumer goods and digitalization are key growth drivers in the segment.
The Surface Technologies segment bundles chemical solutions for surfaces in the Catalysts and
Coatings divisions. Its portfolio range serves the automotive and chemical industries and includes
catalysts, battery materials, automotive OEM and refinish coatings, surface treatment, and precious and
base metal services. An innovative technology portfolio and tailor-made solutions for customers are the
basis for the segment's targeted growth. Since January 1, 2025, the Battery Materials and Environmental
Catalyst and Metal Solutions divisions, which were formerly part of the Catalysts division, have been
reported as independent operating divisions within the segment alongside the Coatings division. As of
the same date, the chemical and refining catalysts business, previously reported in the Catalysts division,
was allocated to the Performance Chemicals division in the Industrial Solutions segment.
The Agricultural Solutions segment consists of the division of the same name. Its product portfolio is
designed for different crop systems, combining seeds and traits, seed treatment products, and biological
and chemical crop protection products. Agricultural Solutions offers farmers innovative and sustainable
solutions supported by digital tools. The segment aims for innovation-driven growth and a targeted
expansion of the portfolio through collaboration and acquisitions.
The following activities and transactions are presented under Other:
– Cross-divisional corporate research working on long-term topics of strategic importance to the BASF
Group. Furthermore, it focuses on the development of specific key technologies which are of
overarching importance for the divisions.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 351
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– The BASF Group’s steering by corporate headquarters.
– Other businesses which include commodity trading, engineering and other services, as well as rental
income and leases. In addition, discontinued operations and certain activities remaining after
divestitures as well as remanent fixed costs resulting from organizational changes or restructuring that
are not allocated to the operating divisions are reported here.
– Foreign currency results not allocated to the segments and measurement effects from the hedging of
raw materials price and foreign currency exchange risks as well as gains and losses from the long-
term incentive programs (LTI programs).
– Trade with renewable energies as well as activities in the Net Zero Accelerator unit, in which company-
wide projects to achieve climate protection targets were bundled until December 31, 2024.
– Idle capacity costs from internal human resource platforms as well as consolidation effects that cannot
be allocated to a division.
EBITDA before special items of Other
Million € 2024 2023
Costs for cross-divisional corporate research -183 -227
Costs of corporate headquarters -232 -222
Other businesses 171 200
Miscellaneous income and expenses -334 -218
EBITDA before special items of Other -578 -466
Income from operations before depreciation, amortization and special items of Other decreased by
€112 million to -€578 million in 2024. The reasons for the decrease were mainly foreign currency results,
hedging and other measurement effects included in miscellaneous expenses as well as lower earnings
contributions from Other businesses. EBITDA of Other included special items of -€601 million, mainly for
the class settlement, which does not constitute any admission of liability, in connection with the AFFF
multidistrict litigation in the United States (for more information, see Note 23 from page 411 onward).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 352
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Reconciliation of the assets of Other to the assets of the BASF Group
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Segment assets 64,807 63,002
Assets of businesses included in Other 3,070 2,252
Other financial assets and non-integral investments accounted for using the equity method 4,576 5,617
Deferred tax assets 574 617
Cash and cash equivalents / marketable securities 2,981 2,678
Defined benefit assets 1,383 170
Other receivables / prepaid expenses 3,024 3,060
Assets of Other 15,609 14,393
Assets of the BASF Group 80,415 77,395
Reconciliation of segment income to income before income taxes
Million € 2024 2023
EBITDA before special items of the segments 8,436 8,137
EBITDA before special items of Other -578 -466
EBITDA before special items 7,858 7,671
Special items excluding depreciation and amortization of the segments -575 -331
Special items excluding depreciation and amortization of Other -601 -159
Special items excluding depreciation and amortization -1,176 -490
Depreciation and amortization of the segments 4,487 4,788
Depreciation and amortization of Other 161 153
Depreciation and amortization 4,648 4,941
EBIT of the segments 3,373 3,018
EBIT of Other -1,340 -778
EBIT 2,033 2,240
Net income from shareholdings 598 -200
Financial result -563 -620
Income before income taxes 2,069 1,420
BASF Report 2024 Notes 353
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Segments 2024
Surface Agricul-
Industrial Nutrition Technolo- tural BASF
Million € Chemicals Materials Solutions & Care gies Solutions Other Group
Sales 10,838 13,510 8,175 6,729 12,898 9,798 3,312 65,260
Intersegment transfers 3,962 825 385 446 206 50 93 5,968
Sales including transfers 14,800 14,335 8,560 7,176 13,104 9,848 3,405 71,227
Material consumption 5,280 7,057 4,216 2,838 8,006 3,257 2,889 33,544
Income from integral
companies accounted
for using the equity
method 27 17 11 6 46 − -105 2
Income from operations
before depreciation and
amortization (EBITDA) 1,314 1,769 1,140 819 1,160 1,659 -1,179 6,681
EBITDA before special
items 1,342 1,805 1,161 814 1,375 1,938 -578 7,858
Income from operations
(EBIT) 429 939 780 220 22 984 -1,340 2,033
Special Items -74 -48 -32 -53 -763 -286 -622 -1,878
of which impairments
and reversals
of impair-
ments -46 -12 -10 -58 -548 -7 -21 -702
Assets 14,266 10,135 5,629 7,887 11,513 15,377 15,609 80,415
of which goodwill 215 196 636 871 2,398 3,341 63 7,721
other
intangible
assets 62 209 88 162 797 2,913 31 4,262
property,
plant and
equipment 9,938 5,373 1,918 3,607 3,157 2,132 1,073 27,197
integral
investments
accounted
for using
the equity
method 854 136 14 39 473 − 882 2,399
Liabilities 3,316 2,946 1,815 2,347 2,589 3,309 27,210 43,532
Research and
development expenses 80 180 144 149 313 919 276 2,061
Additions to property,
plant and equipment and
intangible assets
(including acquisitions) 3,403 1,139 289 809 560 387 241 6,826
Depreciation and
amortization of property,
plant and equipment and
intangible assets 885 830 360 599 1,137 675 161 4,648
of which impairments 65 25 20 87 554 18 13 781
reversals
of impair-
ments 1 2 0 0 0 0 1 5
BASF Report 2024 Notes 354
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Segments 2023
Surface Agricul-
Industrial Nutrition Technolo- tural BASF
Million € Chemicals Materials Solutions & Care gies Solutions Other Group
Sales 10,369 14,149 8,010 6,858 16,204 10,092 3,220 68,902
Intersegment transfers 3,606 864 436 429 176 36 102 5,649
Sales including transfers 13,975 15,013 8,445 7,286 16,381 10,128 3,323 74,551
Material consumption 4,981 7,785 4,205 3,199 11,265 3,133 2,653 37,222
Income from integral
companies accounted
for using the equity
method 92 14 12 3 80 − -9 192
Income from operations
before depreciation and
amortization (EBITDA) 1,167 1,523 1,010 578 1,351 2,177 -626 7,180
EBITDA before special
items 1,167 1,650 965 565 1,520 2,270 -466 7,671
Income from operations
(EBIT) 364 378 660 119 366 1,131 -778 2,240
Special Items 4 -449 35 12 -572 -433 -164 -1,566
of which impairments
and reversals
of impair-
ments 4 -322 -9 − -404 -340 -5 -1,076
Assets 11,468 9,716 5,576 7,496 12,657 16,089 14,393 77,395
of which goodwill 204 191 629 858 2,319 3,236 62 7,499
other
intangible
assets 64 243 111 281 897 3,079 42 4,717
property,
plant and
equipment 7,251 4,950 1,919 3,264 3,560 2,145 991 24,080
integral
investments
accounted
for using
the equity
method 890 201 12 35 504 − 413 2,054
Liabilities 2,798 3,730 1,755 2,296 2,685 3,462 24,024 40,750
Research and
development expenses 83 185 150 150 304 900 356 2,130
Additions to property,
plant and equipment and
intangible assets
(including acquisitions) 2,706 1,083 285 765 621 353 195 6,006
Depreciation and
amortization of property,
plant and equipment and
intangible assets 803 1,146 349 459 986 1,046 153 4,941
of which impairments 23 337 13 5 411 354 6 1,149
reversals
of impair-
ments 6 1 0 − 0 − − 6
BASF Report 2024 Notes 355
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Regions 2024
South
America,
Of which North Africa,
Million € Europe Germany America Asia Pacific Middle East BASF Group
Location of customer
Sales 24,778 6,138 17,773 16,226 6,482 65,260
Share % 38.0 9.4 27.2 24.9 9.9 100.0
Location of company
Sales 26,169 11,016 18,168 15,886 5,037 65,260
Assets 36,083 20,656 19,483 20,557 4,292 80,415
of which intangible assets 4,986 2,563 5,516 1,229 252 11,983
property, plant
and equipment 9,914 5,860 5,922 10,773 589 27,197
integral
investments
accounted for
using the equity
method 906 502 109 1,385 − 2,399
Additions to property, plant
and equipment and intangible
assets (including acquisitions) 1,953 1,249 1,193 3,549 131 6,826
Depreciation and amortization
of property, plant and
equipment and intangible
assets including impairments
and reversals of impairments 2,530 1,814 1,198 781 139 4,648
In the United States, sales to third parties in 2024 amounted to €15,303 million (previous year:
€16,128 million) according to location of companies and €14,714 million (previous year: €15,764 million)
according to location of customers. On December 31, 2024, the carrying amounts of intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment, and investments accounted for using the equity method in the United
States amounted to €10,975 million (previous year: €10,362 million).
In China, sales to third parties in 2024 amounted to €8,202 million (previous year: €8,950 million)
according to location of companies and €8,113 million (previous year: €8,893 million) according to
location of customers. On December 31, 2024, the carrying amounts of intangible assets, property, plant
and equipment, and investments accounted for using the equity method amounted to €10,753 million
(previous year: €7,802 million) in China.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 356
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Regions 2023
South
America,
Of which North Africa,
Million € Europe Germany America Asia Pacific Middle East BASF Group
Location of customer
Sales 26,022 6,833 18,833 17,520 6,527 68,902
Share % 37.8 9.9 27.3 25.4 9.5 100.0
Location of company
Sales 27,631 11,449 19,003 17,142 5,126 68,902
Assets 36,019 22,498 19,236 17,617 4,524 77,395
of which intangible assets 5,303 2,786 5,393 1,243 277 12,216
property, plant
and equipment 10,289 6,306 5,419 7,692 680 24,080
integral
investments
accounted for
using the equity
method 448 13 122 1,485 − 2,054
Additions to property, plant
and equipment and intangible
assets (including acquisitions) 2,367 1,463 934 2,580 125 6,006
Depreciation and amortization
of property, plant and
equipment and intangible
assets including impairments
and reversals of impairments 2,904 1,674 1,196 694 146 4,941
6 Earnings per share
Earnings per share
2024 2023
Income after taxes Million € 1,453 379
of which noncontrolling interests Million € 155 154
Net income Million € 1,298 225
Weighted average number of outstanding shares 1,000 892,522 892,641
Dilution effect from BASF’s “plus” incentive share program 1,000 2,449 2,436
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 1,000 894,971 895,077
Earnings per share
Basic € 1.45 0.25
Diluted € 1.45 0.25
In accordance with IAS 33, earnings per share are determined by dividing earnings attributable to
shareholders of BASF SE by the weighted average of outstanding shares. Pursuant to IAS 33, a potential
dilutive effect must be considered in the diluted earnings per share for those BASF shares that will be
granted in the future as part of BASF’s “plus” share program. This applies regardless of the fact that the
necessary shares are acquired on the market by third parties on behalf of BASF and that there are no
plans to issue new shares.
As in the previous year, no dilutive effect arose from the issue of “plus” shares in 2024.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 357
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
7 Sales revenue
Accounting policies
Sales revenue from contracts with customers is recognized in the amount of the consideration BASF
expects to receive in exchange for the goods or services when the customer obtains control of the goods
or services. Control is considered to be transferred when the customer can direct the use of the goods or
services and can obtain all substantial remaining benefits from them.
BASF primarily generates income from the sale of goods. Because the customer obtains control of the
goods at a specific point in time, the corresponding sales revenue is recognized based on a given point
in time. Determination of this point in time occurs in the context of an overall assessment of the
circumstances which considers the existence of a present claim to payment, the legal title to the goods,
actual physical possession of the goods, the transfer of risks and rewards as well as customer
acceptance. The transfer of risks and rewards takes into account the underlying terms of delivery
(especially Incoterms) and is of particular practical significance. According to these principles, sales
revenue from the sale of goods is generally recognized upon delivery. If products are delivered to a
consignment warehouse, BASF normally retains control of the goods. Accordingly, sales revenue is not
recognized until the customer collects the goods from the consignment warehouse. Long-term supply
agreements usually contain variable prices, which depend, among other factors, on the development of
raw materials prices and variable volumes.
Services rendered to customers by BASF are invoiced according to work completed and recognized as
revenue accordingly.
BASF generates a portion of its sales revenue from license agreements. Sales revenue from license
agreements is recognized based on a point in time or a period of time depending on whether the licensee
is being granted a right to use (revenue recognized at a point in time) or a right to access (revenue
recognized over time) the intellectual property of BASF. Revenues from sales and usage-based royalties
are recognized when the underlying sale or usage occurs.
Sales revenue from the sale of precious metals to industrial customers is recognized on delivery and the
corresponding purchase prices are recorded as cost of sales. In the trading of precious metals and their
derivatives with traders, where there is usually no physical delivery, revenues are netted against the
corresponding costs.
Commodity swaps that do not lead to a transfer of economic control are eliminated.
If a consideration that is contractually agreed upon by a customer includes variable components, BASF
estimates the amount of the consideration. Variable components are recognized as revenue only to the
extent that it is highly probable that previously recognized sales revenue will not have to be cancelled as
soon as there is no longer uncertainty about the actual amount of the consideration. Primarily rebates
and other discounts are recognized as a reduction in revenue in accordance with the principle of
individual measurement. BASF grants customers rebates, among other things, if the goods purchased by
the customer exceed a contractually defined threshold within the period specified. Rebates are usually
deducted from amounts payable by the customer. Taking into account the specific terms of the
underlying contract, BASF uses the expected value method or the most likely amount to estimate a
variable consideration amount. The method is selected based primarily on number of possible results
such as the number of volume thresholds with rebates. All available information, particularly historical
values, is used for making estimates.
In some contracts, BASF grants the customer the right to return goods within a specific period of time,
even if they meet the agreed specifications (sale with right of return). The actual expected amount of the
consideration BASF is entitled to receive in this case is estimated using the expected value method.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 358
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Refund liabilities are recognized in the amount of considerations paid by the customer for goods that are
expected to be returned.
BASF opts to apply the practical expedient in IFRS 15.63 to not adjust the amount of the agreed
consideration for the effects of a material financing component if, at the beginning of a contract, no more
than one year is expected to lapse between the transfer of control of the goods or services and payment
by the customer.
According to the practical expedient under IFRS 15.94, BASF recognizes the costs of obtaining a
contract as an expense when they are incurred if the amortization period of the asset does not exceed
one year.
BASF also applies the practical expedient in IFRS 15.121 of not reporting information on remaining
performance obligations resulting from a contract with a maximum expected original term of one year.
Furthermore, information on performance obligations is not reported if the resulting revenue is
recognized in accordance with IFRS 15.B16.
Explanation of sales revenue
Sales by division and by indication and sector
Million € 2024 2023
Petrochemicals 8,050 7,418
Intermediates 2,788 2,951
Chemicals 10,838 10,369
Performance Materials 6,848 7,244
Monomers 6,661 6,905
Materials 13,510 14,149
Dispersions & Resins 5,110 4,921
Performance Chemicals 3,065 3,088
Industrial Solutions 8,175 8,010
Care Chemicals 4,751 4,721
Nutrition & Health 1,978 2,137
Nutrition & Care 6,729 6,858
Catalysts 8,617 11,818
Coatings 4,280 4,387
Surface Technologies 12,898 16,204
Fungicides 3,014 3,047
Herbicides 2,965 3,380
Insecticides 1,102 1,041
Seed Treatment 598 662
Seeds & Traits 2,119 1,962
Agricultural Solutions 9,798 10,092
Other 3,312 3,220
BASF Group 65,260 68,902
Sales revenue of €44 million that was included in contract liabilities as of January 1, 2024, was
recognized in 2024 (previous year: €44 million).
Sales revenue for the 2024 fiscal year includes €265 million from performance obligations satisfied in
prior periods (previous year: €238 million). This relates in particular to adjustments for sales and usage-
based royalties as well as the reversal of over accruals for rebates and product returns from the previous
year.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 359
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
8 Functional costs
Under the cost of sales method, functional costs incurred by the operating functions are determined on
the basis of cost center accounting. The functional costs particularly contain the personnel costs,
depreciation and amortization accumulated on the underlying final cost centers as well as allocated costs
within the cost accounting cycle. Operating expenses that cannot be allocated to the functional costs are
reported as other operating expenses (for more information, see Note 9 from page 361 onward).
Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes all production and purchase costs of the goods that have been sold in the period
(for more information, see Note 16 from page 390 onward). For services, the costs necessary for their
provision are included in the cost of sales.
Selling expenses
Selling expenses primarily include marketing and advertising costs, freight costs, packaging costs,
distribution management costs, commissions and licensing costs.
General administrative expenses
General administrative expenses include the costs of the Corporate Center, of general management, the
Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board. They also include the costs of managing
operating divisions and business units as well as the costs of the supporting services in departments
such as accounting, legal, taxes and controlling.
Research and development expenses
Research and development expenses include the costs resulting from research projects as well as the
necessary license fees for research activities.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 360
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
9 Other operating income and expenses
Other operating income
Million € 2024 2023
Income from the adjustment and release of provisions recognized in other operating expenses 37 130
Revenue from miscellaneous other activities 156 248
Income from hedging transactions and LTI programs 47 90
Income from foreign currency transactions and the translation of financial statements in foreign
currencies 62 66
Gains on divestitures and the disposal of noncurrent assets 71 116
Reversals of impairment losses on noncurrent assets – 6
Income from the reversal of valuation allowances for business-related receivables – 101
Gains/losses from precious metal trading 158 254
Income from refunds and government grants 302 292
Other 541 686
Other operating income 1,374 1,990
Income from the adjustment and release of provisions recognized in other operating expenses
decreased in 2024 compared to the previous year and mainly affected provisions for environmental
protection measures. Provisions were reversed or adjusted if, based on the circumstances on the
balance sheet date, utilization was no longer expected, or expected to a lesser extent.
In both years, revenue from miscellaneous other activities primarily included income from rentals,
catering operations, cultural events and logistics services. The decrease in revenue over the previous
year was largely offset by lower production costs.
In both years, income from hedging transactions and LTI programs mainly included income from the
valuation of virtual and physical power purchase agreements. A decline in income from hedging
transactions for the procurement of natural gas was attributable to effects from the market valuation of
the derivatives used for hedging.
Income from foreign currency transactions and the translation of financial statements in foreign
currencies related to the translation of receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies and included
income from the translation of companies’ financial statements whose local currency is different from the
functional currency.
Gains on divestitures and the disposal of noncurrent assets decreased compared with the previous
year. In 2023, this item primarily consisted of gains from the sale of an office building in Europe.
Income from the reversal of value adjustments on operational receivables in the previous year
resulted from the reversal of value adjustments in connection with a traffic tax in Brazil. Since the fiscal
year 2024, income and expenses from the reversal of or addition to allowances on business-related
receivables are reported on a net basis.
Income from refunds and government grants was mainly attributable to subsidies for business
activities in the battery materials sector. It also included grants for regional business development in
China and other funding measures in various countries.
Other income included income from the sale of precious metals and a number of other items in 2024. In
2023, it included income from the sale of CO certificates amounting to €185 million.
2
BASF Report 2024 Notes 361
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Other operating expenses
Million € 2024 2023
Restructuring and integration measures 806 628
Environmental protection and safety measures, costs of demolition and removal, and project costs
not subject to mandatory capitalization 506 530
Depreciation, amortization and impairments of noncurrent assets and of the disposal groups 790 1,163
Costs from miscellaneous revenue-generating activities 135 222
Expenses from hedging transactions and LTI programs 90 117
Losses from foreign currency transactions and the translation of financial statements in foreign
currencies 223 366
Losses from divestitures and the disposal of noncurrent assets 36 73
Expenses from the addition of valuation allowances on business-related receivables 50 31
Expenses for derecognition of obsolete inventory 332 306
Other 1,152 785
Other operating expenses 4,120 4,221
In 2024, expenses from restructuring and integration measures related mainly to measures in
connection with the cost savings program focusing on Europe and adjustments to production structures
at the Verbund site in Ludwigshafen, Germany. In both years, additional expenses were largely
attributable to restructuring measures to improve competitiveness in various operating divisions and site
closures in Europe and North America. In 2023, expenses also resulted from the carve-out of the
Environmental Catalyst and Metal Solutions unit within the Catalysts division. In the previous year,
expenses were also incurred for the integration of the battery materials business acquired in 2021.
Environmental protection and safety measures, costs of demolition and removal, and project costs
not subject to mandatory capitalization were expensed if requirements for capitalization pursuant to
IFRS were not met. Expenses for project costs not subject to mandatory capitalization amounted to
€390 million in 2024 (previous year: €381 million), and in both years were attributable in particular to the
construction of the new Verbund site in China and the Ludwigshafen site. In addition, expenses of
€116 million in 2024 (previous year: €123 million) were incurred for additions to environmental provisions.
In 2024, these mainly related to the Ludwigshafen site, whereas in the previous year they were primarily
due to several discontinued sites in North America.
Depreciation, amortization and impairments of noncurrent assets and of the disposal groups in
2024 included impairments in the amount of €772 million. These comprised impairments on property,
plant and equipment in the Surface Technologies segment, especially in the battery materials business,
on property, plant and equipment in the Chemicals segment and on property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets in the Nutrition & Care segment. In 2023, impairments amounted to €1,149 million and
mainly related to impairments on property, plant and equipment in the Surface Technologies segment,
especially in the battery materials business, on property, plant and equipment in the Agricultural
Solutions segment and on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the Materials segment
(for more information, see Note 14 from page 378 onward).
Costs from miscellaneous revenue-generating activities relate to the corresponding items presented
in other operating income.
Expenses from hedging transactions and LTI programs included expenses of €89 million in 2024
(previous year: €83 million) from hedging transactions, primarily attributable in both years to expenses for
option premiums used to hedge natural gas purchases. Furthermore, there were higher expenses in 2024
from the valuation of virtual power purchase agreements, while expenses for other hedging transactions
decreased. LTI programs led to expenses in the amount of €1 million in 2024 (previous year: €35 million).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 362
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In both years, losses from divestitures and the disposal of noncurrent assets included costs in
connection with divestment projects and purchase price adjustments for completed divestments. In the
previous year, losses also arose in connection with the sale of the De Meern site in the Netherlands.
Expenses from the addition of valuation allowances on business-related receivables in 2024
included in particular valuation allowances on receivables in the Agricultural Solutions division in South
America, Africa, Middle East. Since the 2024 financial year, gains and expenses from the reversal of or
additions to value adjustments on operational receivables have been reported on a net basis.
Other expenses included expenses in 2024, primarily as a result of the out-of-court settlement in
connection with the AFFF multidistrict litigation in the United States (for more information, see Note 23
from page 411 onward). Both years also include further expenses for litigation, for REACH, for the
provision of services and other services and for warranties, as well as other expenses for social
commitment.
10 Investments accounted for using the equity method and other
financial assets
Accounting policies
Joint ventures and associated companies are accounted for using the equity method. The carrying
amounts of shareholdings are adjusted annually based on the pro rata share of net income, dividends
and other changes in equity. Should there be indications of a reduction in the value of an investment, an
impairment test is conducted and, if necessary, an impairment is recognized in the income statement. In
the case of publicly listed associated companies, share prices are included in the impairment test and
form the basis of valuation if there is an indication for permanent impairment or reversal of an
impairment. Furthermore, earnings and the carrying amount are adjusted when accounting policies
deviate or as a result of purchase price allocations.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 363
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
10.1 Integral companies accounted for using the equity method
Income from integral companies accounted for using the equity method
Million € 2024 2023
Proportional income after taxes 158 196
of which joint ventures 136 180
associated companies 22 16
Other adjustments to income and expenses -156 -4
of which joint ventures -16 -3
associated companies -140 -1
Income from integral companies accounted for using the equity method 2 192
The material equity-accounted shareholding that is classified as integral is BASF-YPC Company Ltd.,
Nanjing, China, in which BASF and Sinopec each hold 50%, and which operates the Verbund site in
Nanjing, China.
Income from integral companies accounted for using the equity method decreased by €190 million
in 2024. Of the decrease, €21 million related to the shareholding in Heesung Catalysts Corporation,
Seoul, South Korea (joint venture), and €10 million to the shareholding in BASF-YPC Company Ltd. (joint
venture). In 2024, there were also impairments of €108 million on the shareholding in Nordlicht Offshore
Wind GmbH, Hamburg, Germany, and €5 million on each of the shareholdings in the joint ventures, BASF
HERAEUS (China) Metal Resource Co., Ltd., Zhejiang, China, and BASF PJPC Neopentylglycol Co. Ltd.,
Jilin City, China in 2024. A further impairment of €19 million was attributable to the shareholding in
Markor Meiou Chemical (Xinjiang) Co., Ltd., Korla, China (associated company), in connection with the
expected divestiture.
Reconciliation of the carrying amounts of integral shareholdings accounted for using the equity method
Million € Joint ventures Associated companies
2024 2023 2024 2023
Carrying amounts according to the equity method as of
the beginning of the year 1,842 2,107 212 249
Proportional income after taxes and other adjustments to
income and expenses 120 177 -117 15
Proportional changes in other comprehensive income -12 -134 9 -11
Total comprehensive income 108 43 -109 4
Changes in the scope of consolidation – -10 – –
Additions 8 – 598 –
Disposals – – -80 -7
Transfers -160 -297 -21 -34
Carrying amounts according to the equity method as of
the end of the year 1,798 1,842 600 212
Proportional changes in other comprehensive income included income and expense recognized
directly in equity and related, in addition to currency effects, to changes in the fair value of derivatives in
connection with long-term power supply agreements, particularly at the HKZ Investor Holding B.V. joint
venture in Arnhem, Netherlands. The company holds shares in the Hollandse Kust Zuid offshore wind
farm and manages the power supply agreements with the wind farm.
Changes in the scope of consolidation in 2023 resulted from the reclassification of Changchun
Chemetall Chemicals Co., Ltd., Changchun, China.
Additions in 2024 mainly related to the shareholding in the associated company, Nordlicht Offshore
Wind GmbH, Hamburg, Germany.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 364
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Disposals in 2024 were mainly due to decreases in capital of the associated companies, Shanghai
Lianheng Isocyanate Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China, and Markor Meiou Chemical (Xinjiang) Co., Ltd. In
addition, disposals in both years included capital reductions for Yara Freeport LLC, Freeport, Texas
(associated company).
Transfers in both years primarily included dividend payments by the joint ventures, Heesung Catalysts
Corporation, BASF-YPC Company Ltd., Southeast Texas Pipelines LLC, Houston, Texas, and N.E.
Chemcat Corporation, Tokyo, Japan.
Additional information on the BASF-YPC Company Ltd. material integral
investment accounted for using the equity method
Financial information on BASF-YPC Company Ltd., Nanjing, China (100%)
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Balance sheet
Noncurrent assets 846 911
Current assets 943 838
of which cash and cash equivalents 205 261
Assets 1,789 1,749
Equity 1,559 1,492
Noncurrent liabilities 1 5
of which financial indebtedness – –
Current liabilities 229 252
of which financial indebtedness – –
Total equity and liabilities 1,789 1,749
Statement of income 2024 2023
Sales revenue 2,627 2,537
Amortization/impairments and reversals of impairments -135 -142
Interest income 5 9
Interest expenses – –
Income taxes -19 -25
Income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses 55 76
Changes in other comprehensive income 54 -115
Reconciliation of the carrying amount of the shareholding in BASF-YPC Company Ltd.
Million € 2024 2023
BASF interest % 50 50
Carrying amount as of the beginning of the year 746 938
Proportional income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses 28 38
Proportional changes in other comprehensive income 27 -58
Dividends received -21 -172
Carrying amount as of the end of the year 780 746
BASF Report 2024 Notes 365
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
10.2 Non-integral companies accounted for using the equity method
Income from non-integral companies accounted for using the equity method
Million € 2024 2023
Proportional income after taxes 269 -66
Other adjustments to income and expenses including disposal gain from the sale of
Wintershall Dea’s E&P business 382 -48
Income from non-integral companies accounted for using the equity method 651 -114
The non-integral companies accounted for using the equity method are exclusively associated
companies.
On September 3, 2024, BASF completed the sale of Wintershall Dea's exploration and production
business (E&P business) to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom. In return for the transfer of the
E&P business, BASF received a cash payment and 39.59% of shares in Harbour Energy. BASF exercises
significant influence over Harbour Energy and accounts for the shareholding accordingly using the equity
method. Following the transaction, Harbour Energy and Wintershall Dea represent the material non-
integral shareholdings accounted for using the equity method.
BASF continues to hold a 72.7% stake in Wintershall Dea, which was converted from a stock corporation
(AG) to a limited liability company (GmbH) on September 23, 2024. The remaining shares are held by
LetterOne. Wintershall Dea is classified as an associated company because, in addition to BASF and
LetterOne, independent members are also represented in the board responsible for decisions about
relevant activities and BASF can thus only exercise significant influence.
Stahl Lux 2 S.A., Luxembourg (BASF interest: 16.32%), and CIMO Compagnie industrielle de Monthey
S.A., Monthey, Switzerland (BASF interest: 15.0%), are classified as associated companies as BASF is
represented in the relevant boards and can thus exercise significant influence over the companies.
Income from non-integral companies accounted for using the equity method increased by
€765 million in 2024, mainly due to the gain on the disposal of Wintershall Dea's E&P business to
Harbour Energy in the amount of €390 million (before taxes).
The investment in Harbour Energy was initially recorded at the share’s closing rate on
September 3, 2024, (£2.86) plus the directly attributable acquisition costs. The difference between the
carrying amount of the shareholding and Harbour Energy’s proportional equity was allocated as part of
an external appraisal (purchase price allocation). The portion of the difference allocated to assets will
lead to corresponding adjustments to earnings and investment value in subsequent periods. Harbour
shares were quoted at £2.55 per share as of December 31, 2024. The market value of the Harbour
Energy shares held by BASF was therefore €2,063 million as of the balance sheet date. Because the
share price had risen again in the course of January 2025 to values above those on the date of
acquisition, there was no significant or lasting decline in fair value.
The shareholding in Wintershall Dea was reviewed for any indication of impairment. There was no
indication of impairment.
»For more information on Wintershall Dea and Harbour Energy, see Note 3 from page 344 onward and the “Annual Report & Accounts” of
Harbour Energy plc.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 366
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Reconciliation of carrying amounts of non-integral associated companies accounted for using the
equity method
Million € Associated companies
2024 2023
Carrying amounts according to the equity method as of the beginning of the year 4,518 4,645
Proportional income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses 262 -120
Proportional changes in other comprehensive income 112 307
Total comprehensive income 373 187
Changes in the scope of consolidation and disposals -3,512 -24
Additions 2,294 –
Transfers -262 -291
Carrying amounts according to the equity method as of the end of the year 3,411 4,518
In 2024, proportional changes in other comprehensive income included changes in the fair value of
derivatives as well as currency effects, primarily at Harbour Energy and Wintershall Dea. The sale of
Wintershall Dea's E&P business to Harbour Energy led to differences arising from currency translation in
the amount of €43 million and changes in the fair value of derivatives in the amount of €2 million, which
were recognized as expenses in the disposal gain.
In 2023, primarily changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge gas prices and impairments of
Wintershall Dea's shareholdings in Russian companies arose, which are measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income in accordance with IFRS 9.
Changes in the scope of consolidation and disposals in 2024 particularly related to the disposal of the
carrying amount of the shareholding in Wintershall Dea attributable to the sold E&P business. In 2023, in
addition to the sale of the shareholding in Quantafuel ASA, Oslo, Norway, there were adjustments to the
scope of consolidation at Wintershall Dea. Disposals in 2023 included capital reductions for the
associated company, Stahl Lux 2 SA, Luxembourg.
Additions included the shareholding in Harbour Energy at fair value plus directly attributable incidental
acquisition costs.
In both years, transfers included dividend payments from Wintershall Dea GmbH (Wintershall Dea AG
until September 23, 2024).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 367
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Additional information on the Harbour Energy and Wintershall Dea material non-
integral shareholdings accounted for using the equity method
The following table contains financial information on the Harbour Energy material non-integral
shareholding accounted for using the equity method, including adjustments for fair value made at initial
recognition and the resulting effects on earnings.
Financial information on Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom (100%)
Million € Dec. 31, 2024
Balance sheet
Noncurrent assetsa 26,207
Current assets 3,498
of which cash and cash equivalents 775
Assets of disposal groups 267
of which cash and cash equivalents 11
Assets 29,972
Equity attributable to shareholders of Harbour Energy plc 5,150
Subordinate bonds issued by Harbour Energy 1,504
Equity 6,654
Noncurrent liabilities 17,914
of which financial indebtedness 4,057
Current liabilities 5,180
of which financial indebtedness 976
Liabilities of disposal groups 224
of which financial indebtedness –
Total equity and liabilities 29,972
Statement of income Sept.-Dec. 2024
Sales revenue 3,335
Depreciation and amortization/impairment and reversals of impairments -1,325
Interest income 33
Interest expenses -73
Income taxes -849
Income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses -151
Changes in other comprehensive income and other changes in equity 320
a Goodwill from fair value adjustments is shown in the following table.
Reconciliation of the carrying amount of the shareholding in Harbour Energy
Million € 2024
BASF's share of equity attributable to shareholders of Harbour Energy plc % 39.59
Addition of the carrying amount as of September 3 2,294
of which proportional goodwill from fair value adjustments 498
Proportional income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses -60
Proportional changes in other comprehensive income and other changes in equity 127
Dividends received –
Carrying amount as of the end of the year 2,361
of which proportional goodwill from fair value adjustments 529
The following table contains financial information on the Wintershall Dea material non-integral
shareholding accounted for using the equity method, including adjustments for fair value made at initial
recognition and the resulting effects on earnings.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 368
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Financial information on Wintershall Dea, Kassel/Hamburg, Germany (100%)
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Balance sheet
Noncurrent assetsa 266 236
Current assets 1,403 1,199
of which cash and cash equivalents 1,186 987
Assets of disposal groups 2 16,767
of which cash and cash equivalents – 221
Assets 1,671 18,202
Equity attributable to shareholders of Wintershall Dea GmbHb 562 2,670
Subordinate bonds issued by Wintershall Dea – 1,525
Equity 562 4,195
Noncurrent liabilities 522 473
of which financial indebtedness 28 26
Current liabilities 587 574
of which financial indebtedness 246 176
Liabilities of disposal groups – 12,960
of which financial indebtedness – 3,126
Total equity and liabilities 1,671 18,202
Statement of incomec 2024 2023
Sales revenue 139 3,292
Depreciation and amortization/impairment and reversals of impairments 39 480
Interest income 85 103
Interest expenses -20 -27
Income taxes -44 -200
Income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses from continuing operations 41 2
Income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses from discontinued operations 426c -182
Changes in other comprehensive income -26 424
a Goodwill resulting from fair value adjustments is shown in the following table.
b Wintershall Dea AG until September 23, 2024
c This does not include earnings from the spin-off recognized in Wintershall Dea’s financial statements or the effects on earnings resulting from presentation of the assets
and liabilities transferred to Harbour Energy as a disposal group (€4,420 million).
Reconciliation of the carrying amount of the shareholding in Wintershall Dea
Million € 2024 2023
BASF's share of equity attributable to shareholders of Wintershall Dea GmbHa % 72.70 72.70
Carrying amount as of the beginning of the year 4,251 4,364
of which proportional goodwill from fair value adjustments 2,310 2,306
Disposal of the carrying amount attributable to the business sold to Harbour Energy -2,956 –
Proportional income after taxes and other adjustments to income and expenses 340 -130
Proportional changes in other comprehensive income -19 308
Dividends received / capital repayments -818 -291
Carrying amount as of the end of the year 798 4,251
of which proportional goodwill from fair value adjustments 389 2,310
a Wintershall Dea AG until September 23, 2024
BASF Report 2024 Notes 369
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
10.3 Other shareholdings and financial assets
Net income from other shareholdings
Million € 2024 2023
Dividends and similar income 38 44
Income from the disposal of / measurement at fair value of shareholdings 31 9
Income from profit transfer agreements / tax allocation to shareholdings 7 3
Income from other shareholdings 76 55
Expenses from loss transfer agreements -107 -68
Write-downs to fair value / losses from the sale of shareholdings -22 -73
Expenses from other shareholdings -129 -141
Net income from other shareholdings -53 -86
Net income from other shareholdings in 2024 increased year on year by €33 million. In addition to
higher income from the sale of shareholdings, amortization of the fair value of shareholdings was lower in
2024.
Carrying amounts of other financial assets
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Other shareholdings 533 536
Long-term securities 632 563
Other financial assets 1,165 1,099
BASF Report 2024 Notes 370
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
11 Financial result
Financial result
Million € 2024 2023
Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 339 299
Interest and dividend income from securities and loans 32 23
Interest income 371 322
Interest expenses -929 -860
Interest result -558 -538
Reversals of write-downs on / income from securities and loans 18 40
Net interest income from other long-term personnel obligations – –
Income from the capitalization of borrowing costs 147 80
Interest income on income taxes 74 76
Miscellaneous financial income 29 3
Other financial income 267 199
Write-downs on / losses from securities and loans -7 -11
Net interest expense from underfunded pension plans and similar obligations -99 -85
Unwinding the discount on other noncurrent liabilities -19 -18
Interest expenses on income taxes -7 -8
Miscellaneous financial expenses -141 -159
Other financial expenses -271 -281
Other financial result -5 -82
Financial result -563 -620
Interest expenses rose primarily because of increased interest rates, the higher balance of financial
indebtedness as well as the associated hedging instruments.
The decrease in reversals of write-downs on / income from securities and loans resulted from lower
income from the fair value measurement of securities.
The higher miscellaneous financial income resulted from the measurement of an option issued as part
of a divestiture.
Income from the capitalization of borrowing costs rose due to the higher borrowing cost rate and
increased volume in qualifying assets mainly from construction of the new Verbund site in Zhanjiang,
China.
The decrease in miscellaneous financial expenses was primarily due to lower net expenses associated
with the translation of loans and the measurement of the corresponding hedging instruments against
interest and currency risks.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 371
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
12 Income taxes
Accounting policies
In Germany, a uniform corporate income tax rate of 15.0% as well as a solidarity surcharge of 5.5%
thereon are levied on all distributed and retained earnings. In addition to corporate income tax, income
generated in Germany is subject to a trade tax. It varies depending on the municipality in which the
company is represented. The weighted average tax rate was 14.6% in 2024 (previous year: 14.6%). The
30% rate used to calculate deferred taxes for German Group companies remained unchanged in 2024.
The income of foreign Group companies is assessed using the tax rates applicable in their respective
countries.
Deferred taxes are recorded for temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements according to IFRS and the carrying amounts for tax purposes as well
as for tax loss carryforwards and unused tax credits. These also comprise temporary differences arising
from business combinations, with the exception of goodwill. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
calculated using the respective country-specific tax rates applicable for the period in which the asset or
liability is realized or settled. Tax rate changes enacted or substantively enacted on or before the balance
sheet date are taken into consideration.
Deferred tax assets are offset against deferred tax liabilities provided they are related to the same
taxation authority. Surpluses of deferred tax assets are only recognized provided the tax benefits are
likely to be realized. The valuation of deferred tax assets is based on the assessment of the ability to
utilize tax loss carryforwards and unused tax credits. This depends on whether future taxable profits will
exist during the period in which temporary differences are reversed and in which tax loss carryforwards
and unused tax credits can be claimed. The assessment of recoverability of deferred tax assets is based
on internal projections of the future earnings of the particular taxable entity.
Changes in deferred taxes in the balance sheet are recorded as deferred tax expense or income unless
the underlying transaction is recognized directly in equity or in income and expenses recognized in
equity. For those effects which have been recognized in equity, changes to deferred tax assets and tax
liabilities are also recognized directly in equity.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for differences between the proportional IFRS equity and the tax
base of the investment in a consolidated subsidiary if a reversal of these differences is expected in the
foreseeable future. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for dividend distributions planned for the
following year if these distributions lead to a reversal of temporary differences.
Provisions for German trade tax, corporate income tax and similar income taxes are calculated and
recognized based on the expected taxable income of the consolidated companies less any prepayments
that have been made. Provisions are set up for interest accrued. This interest is reported under other
financial result, not tax expense. Other taxes to be assessed are considered accordingly.
IFRIC 23 clarifies the application of the recognition and measurement policies from IAS 12 when there is
uncertainty regarding income tax-related treatment of individual transactions. They are accounted for
with the assumption that tax authorities will examine the questionable transaction and have all relevant
information. The amount of risk provisions is calculated and reviewed with consideration for the results of
past tax audits as well as the legal assessment of not yet audited transactions and the risk of a deviating
tax-related interpretation by the tax authorities. The most probable value of the individual risks is
recognized.
BASF falls within the scope of the OECD Pillar Two Model Rules. The relevant Pillar Two legislation was
enacted in Germany and has been applied since January 1, 2024.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 372
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
BASF applies the exception in IAS 12 whereby no deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognized in
connection with Pillar Two income taxes under the OECD Model Rules; nor are any disclosures regarding
the matter provided.
Tax expense and tax rate
The BASF Group tax rate amounted to 29.8% in 2024 and 73.3% in the previous year. In both years, the
tax rate was impacted by the nonrecognition of deferred tax assets, especially in Germany.
The application of the Pillar Two legislation resulted in an additional expense of €22 million, which was
included in income taxes.
The tax effects of various underlying matters are presented in the following reconciliation of income taxes
and the effective tax rate.
Tax expense
Million € 2024 2023
Current tax expense 1,014 1,102
Corporate income tax, solidarity surcharge and trade taxes (Germany) 24 3
Foreign income tax 1,084 1,187
Taxes for prior years -94 -87
Deferred tax expense (+) / income (-) -398 -61
From changes in temporary differences -312 -306
From changes in tax loss carryforwards/unused tax credits 31 -27
From changes in the tax rate 5 -1
From the adjustment of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets -122 273
Income taxes 616 1,041
Reconciliation of income taxes and the effective tax rate
2024 2023
Million € % Million € %
Income before income taxes 2,069 1,420
Expected tax based on German tax rate (30%) 621 30.0 426 30.0
Foreign tax rate differential -241 -11.7 -332 -23.3
Tax-exempt income -226 -10.9 -128 -9.0
Nondeductible expenses 345 16.7 291 20.5
Income of companies accounted for using the equity method
(income after taxes) -196 -9.5 -23 -1.6
Taxes for prior years (current and deferred taxes) -72 -3.5 -212 -14.9
Deferred tax liabilities for the future reversal of temporary
differences associated with shares in participating interests -30 -1.4 19 1.4
Changes in the tax rate 5 0.2 -1 -0.1
Nonrecognition / changes in valuation allowances for deferred
tax assets 357 17.2 865 60.9
Other 55 2.7 135 9.5
Income taxes / effective tax rate 616 29.8 1,041 73.3
BASF Report 2024 Notes 373
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Deferred taxes
Deferred taxes are shown in the following table based on the corresponding balance sheet items.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2024
Effects
Effects recog-
Jan. 1, recog- nized Business Deferred Deferred
2024, nized in equity combina- Dec. 31, tax tax
Million € net in income (OCI) tions Other 2024, net assets liabilities
Intangible assets -678 148 7 -1 2 -522 193 -715
Property, plant and
equipment -1,363 42 -64 2 -1 -1,384 172 -1,556
Financial assets 18 -3 -6 – -6 2 12 -10
Inventories and
accounts receivable -602 122 -15 1 3 -491 330 -821
Provisions for
pensions and similar
obligations 862 41 -213 -1 -1 688 856 -168
Other provisions and
liabilities 1,122 -11 -49 – 3 1,064 1,368 -304
Tax loss
carryforwards 163 59 -18 – 1 205 205 –
Other -44 2 49 – – 7 53 -46
Deferred tax assets
(liabilities) before
netting -522 400 -309 1 1 -431 3,189 -3,620
Netting – – – – – – -2,615 2,615
Deferred tax assets
(liabilities) after
netting -522 400 -309 1 1 -431 574 -1,005
BASF Report 2024 Notes 374
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2023
Effects
Effects recog-
Jan. 1, recog- nized Business Deferred Deferred
2023, nized in equity combina- Dec. 31, tax tax
Million € net in income (OCI) tions Other 2023, net assets liabilities
Intangible assets -742 101 -35 – -1 -678 67 -745
Property, plant and
equipment -1,377 -45 57 2 – -1,363 147 -1,510
Financial assets -21 44 -7 – 2 18 16 2
Inventories and
accounts receivable -672 33 38 -1 – -602 365 -967
Provisions for
pensions and similar
obligations 789 -19 94 – -1 862 992 -130
Other provisions and
liabilities 976 165 -19 – -1 1,122 1,390 -268
Tax loss
carryforwards 370 -203 -4 – – 163 163 –
Other 15 -20 -39 – 1 -43 9 -54
Deferred tax assets
(liabilities) before
netting -663 56 84 – – -522 3,149 -3,671
Netting – – – – – – -2,531 2,531
Deferred tax assets
(liabilities) after
netting -663 56 84 – – -522 617 -1,140
Deferred tax assets on deductible temporary differences in the amount of €694 million (previous year:
€1,057 million) were not recognized in 2024, as their utilization at reversal was not reasonably certain.
No deferred tax liabilities on income or withholding taxes were recognized for temporary differences from
undistributed earnings of subsidiaries as these earnings are either not subject to taxation on payout or
are expected to be reinvested for an indefinite period of time. The deferred tax liabilities not recognized in
this context amounted to €156 million in 2024 (previous year: €175 million).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 375
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Tax loss carryforwards
No deferred tax assets were recognized for tax loss carryforwards of €11,825 million (of which
€5,046 million relate to German corporate income tax, €5,251 million to German trade tax, and
€241 million each to the German interest barrier for corporate income tax and trade tax) in 2024 (previous
year: €9,062 million). Of these, €2 million will expire in 2025, €9 million in 2026, €16 million in 2027,
€5 million in 2028, €297 million in 2029, and €253 million in 2030 and thereafter. The remaining
€11,243 million will not expire.
Net surpluses of deferred tax assets for companies that reported tax losses in 2024 or 2023 totaled
€104 million as of December 31, 2024 (previous year: €254 million). Deferred taxes were recognized
because, due to planned earnings, the use of temporary differences or loss carryforwards is expected.
Income tax liabilities
Income tax liabilities include assessed income taxes as well as estimated income taxes not yet assessed
for the current year.
Contingent liabilities related to income taxes amounted to €89 million (previous year: €97 million).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 376
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
13 Noncontrolling interests
Noncontrolling interests in profits and losses
Million € 2024 2023
Noncontrolling interests in profits 199 186
Noncontrolling interests in losses -44 -32
Total 155 154
Noncontrolling interests in profits were higher in 2024 compared with the previous year, primarily at
BASF TotalEnergies Petrochemicals LLC, Houston, Texas, due to higher sales prices. Noncontrolling
interests in losses were higher in 2024 compared with the previous year, primarily at BASF Shanshan
Battery Materials (Ningxia) Co, Ltd, Shizuishan, China, due to impairments of property, plant and
equipment.
Income and expenses recognized in equity that were attributable to noncontrolling interests totaled
€54 million in 2024 and -€74 million in 2023. These effects mainly resulted from currency translation in
both years.
Noncontrolling interests
Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Equity interest Equity interest
Group company Partner % Million € % Million €
BASF India Limited, Mumbai, India Free float 26.67 110 26.67 90
BASF PETRONAS Chemicals Sdn. PETRONAS Chemicals Group
Bhd., Berhad,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 40.00 214 40.00 226
BASF Shanghai Coatings Co., Shanghai Huayi Fine Chemical Co.,
Ltd., Ltd,
Shanghai, China Shanghai, China 40.00 129 40.00 111
BASF TODA Battery Materials,
LLC, TODA KOGYO CORP., Hiroshima,
Yamaguchi, Japan Japan 34.00 33 34.00 38
BASF TotalEnergies TotalEnergies Petrochemicals &
Petrochemicals LLC, Refining USA, Inc.,
Houston, Texas Houston, Texas 40.00 240 40.00 268
BASF Shanshan Battery Materials Ningbo Yongxiang Investment Co.,
Co., Ltd., Ltd.,
Changsha, China Ningbo, China 49.00 275 49.00 288
Shanghai Hua Yi (Group) Co
(SHYG),
Shanghai, China, and
Shanghai BASF Polyurethane Sinopec Shanghai Gaoqiao
Company Ltd., Petrochemical Company Limited,
Shanghai, China Beijing, China 30.00 128 30.00 148
Other 154 199
Total 1,284 1,368
BASF Report 2024 Notes 377
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
14 Fixed assets
Accounting policies
Intangible assets
Goodwill is only written down in the case of an impairment. Impairment testing for goodwill is performed
once a year and whenever there is an indication of impairment. Goodwill impairments are not reversed.
Acquired intangible assets (excluding goodwill) with defined useful lives are generally measured at
cost less straight-line amortization and impairments. The useful life is determined using the period of the
underlying contract or the period of time over which the intangible asset can be expected to be used.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are mainly trade names and trademarks that have been
acquired as part of acquisitions. These are measured at cost and tested for impairment annually or when
there is an indication that their value has declined.
Internally generated intangible assets primarily comprise internally developed software. Such software
and other internally generated intangible assets are measured at cost and amortized over their estimated
useful lives. Impairments are recognized if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds the recoverable
amount. In addition to those costs directly attributable to the asset, costs of internally generated
intangible assets also include an appropriate portion of overhead costs.
The expected useful lives and amortization methods of intangible assets are based on historical values,
plans and estimates.
Depending on the type of intangible asset, amortization is reported under cost of sales, selling expenses,
research and development expenses or other operating expenses.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation and impairment over their useful
lives. The revaluation method is not applied. Low-value assets are fully expensed in the year of
acquisition.
The cost of self-constructed plants includes direct costs, appropriate allocations of material and
production overhead costs, and a share of the general administrative costs of the divisions involved in
the construction of the plants.
Expenses related to the scheduled maintenance of large-scale plants are capitalized separately and
depreciated using the straight-line method over the period until the next planned turnaround. Costs for
the replacement of components are recognized as assets if an additional future benefit is expected. The
carrying amount of the replaced components is derecognized. Costs for maintenance and repair as part
of normal business operations are recognized as an expense.
Investment properties held to realize capital gains or rental income are immaterial. They are valued at the
lower of fair value or cost less depreciation.
The estimated useful lives and depreciation methods of property, plant and equipment are based on
historical values, plans and estimates. The depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are
reviewed at each balance sheet date. Movable and immovable property, plant and equipment are
principally depreciated using the straight-line method.
Borrowing costs: If borrowing costs are directly incurred as part of the acquisition, construction or
production of a qualifying asset, they are capitalized as part of the acquisition or production cost of that
asset. A qualifying asset is an asset for which the process necessary to make it ready for its intended use
or sale is longer than one year. Borrowing costs are capitalized up to the date the asset is ready for its
BASF Report 2024 Notes 378
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
intended use. Borrowing costs were calculated based on a rate of 2.25% (previous year: 1.75%). All
other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants: Government grants for the acquisition or construction of property, plant and
equipment reduce the acquisition or construction cost of the respective assets (net method). Other
government grants or government assistance are recognized immediately as other operating income or
treated as deferred income and released over the underlying period.
Impairment tests
Impairment tests are carried out on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and goodwill
whenever certain triggering events indicate potential impairment. External triggering events include, for
example, changes in customer industries, technologies used and economic downturns, or expected
impacts from climate change. Internal triggering events for an impairment test include lower product
profitability, planned restructuring measures or physical damage to assets. In addition, goodwill and
intangible fixed assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually.
Impairment tests entail a comparison of the carrying amount and the recoverable amount. The
recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use. As a rule, value in
use is determined using the discounted cash flow method. The estimation of cash flows and the
assumptions used consider all information available on the respective balance sheet date about the
future development of the operating business. Actual future developments may vary. Impairment testing
relies upon the cash-generating unit’s long-term earnings forecasts, which are based on macroeconomic
trends.
The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after taxes based on the capital asset pricing model, which
is used in calculating the discount for cash flows, plays an important role in impairment testing. It
comprises a risk-free interest rate, the market risk premium and an industry-specific spread for the credit
risk. Additional important parameters are the detailed planning period and, if applicable, the terminal
growth rates used.
An impairment of assets (excluding goodwill) is recognized if the recoverable amount of the asset is
lower than the carrying amount. An impairment is recognized for the difference between the carrying
amount and the recoverable amount. If the reasons for impairment of an asset (excluding goodwill) no
longer exist, the write-downs are reversed up to the value of the asset, had an impairment not been
recognized. Impairments and reversals of impairments are reported in other operating income and
expenses.
The goodwill impairment test is based on cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units. At
BASF, these largely correspond to the divisions, or in individual cases the business units. If there is a
need for impairment, the existing goodwill is, if necessary, completely written off as a first step. If there is
further need for impairment, this is allocated to the remaining assets of the cash-generating unit.
Goodwill impairments are reported under other operating expenses.
The respective recoverable amounts were generally determined using the value in use. Plans approved
by company management and their respective cash flows for the next five years were used.
A terminal value was calculated for the subsequent period using a forward projection from the last
detailed planning year as a perpetual annuity. Planning is based on experience, current performance and
management’s best possible estimates on the future development of individual parameters. These
include sales revenue (excluding precious metals), contribution margins, fixed costs and investments
from which income from operations before depreciation and amortization and, based on this, the EBITDA
margin are determined. Market assumptions regarding, for example, gas and raw materials prices,
exchange rates, economic development, inflation expectations and market growth of the respective
customer industries are included based on external macroeconomic and industry-specific sources.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 379
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
In addition, planning is also based on the strategies of the individual strategic business units and
divisions which comprise the respective cash-generating units. The digitalization and sustainability trends
identified in the strategies are thus taken into account in the respective impairment tests (for more
information on strategy and identified digitalization and sustainability trends, see from page 18 and from
page 24 onward in the Combined Management’s Report).
14.1 Explanation of intangible assets
The weighted average amortization periods of intangible assets were as follows:
Weighted average amortization in years
2024 2023
Distribution and similar rights 14 14
Product rights, licenses and trademarks 19 18
Know-how, patents and production technologies 15 16
Internally generated intangible assets 8 6
Other rights and values 7 7
BASF Report 2024 Notes 380
The following table shows the development of intangible assets.
Development of intangible assets 2024
Million €
noitubirtsiD
dna
sthgir ralimis
,sthgir
tcudorP dna sesnecil skramedart ,woh-wonK dna stnetap noitcudorp seigolonhcet yllanretnI detareneg elbignatni stessa
rehtO
dna
sthgir
aseulav lliwdooG
latoT
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Cost
As of January 1, 2024 2,244 1,309 4,296 323 898 8,269 17,338
Changes in the scope of
consolidation 1 – – – – – 1
Additions – 2 72 44 14 – 132
Additions from acquisitions – – 1 – – – 1
Disposals -226 -21 -102 -41 -148 -4 -541
Transfers 1 – -9 -10 17 – -1
Transfers to disposal groups -86 -4 -40 – – -5 -135
Currency effects 40 33 128 1 4 250 455
As of December 31, 2024 1,973 1,319 4,346 317 785 8,510 17,249
Accumulated amortization
As of January 1, 2024 1,303 319 1,770 196 765 769 5,122
Changes in the scope of
consolidation 1 – – – – – 1
Additions 156 67 333 61 53 – 670
of which impairments 1 5 60 20 1 – 87
Disposals -226 -21 -104 -41 -139 – -531
Transfers – – – – – – –
Transfers to disposal groups -71 -4 -35 – – – -110
Currency effects 27 7 57 – 3 20 114
As of December 31, 2024 1,190 368 2,021 217 681 789 5,267
Net carrying amount as of
December 31, 2024 783 950 2,325 101 103 7,721 11,983
a Including licenses to such rights and values
Additions in 2024 related primarily to production technologies and internally developed software in the
Agricultural Solutions and Surface Technologies segments.
Disposals of intangible assets with a gross carrying amount of €541 million primarily concerned fully
amortized assets.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 381
In 2024, additions to accumulated amortization contained impairments of €87 million. These related
mainly to know-how and production technologies in the Nutrition & Care segment and resulted from the
discontinuation of an investment project.
Development of intangible assets 2023
Million €
noitubirtsiD
dna
sthgir ralimis
,sthgir
tcudorP dna sesnecil skramedart ,woh-wonK dna stnetap noitcudorp seigolonhcet yllanretnI detareneg elbignatni stessa
rehtO
dna
sthgir
aseulav lliwdooG
latoT
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Cost
As of January 1, 2023 2,441 1,346 4,435 296 898 8,490 17,904
Changes in the scope of
consolidation – – – – – – –
Additions 2 2 66 40 33 – 142
Additions from acquisitions – – – – – – –
Disposals -129 -18 -102 -13 -37 -8 -307
Transfers – – -16 – 10 – -6
Transfers to disposal groups – – – – – – –
Currency effects -69 -20 -86 – -6 -214 -396
As of December 31, 2023 2,244 1,309 4,296 323 898 8,269 17,338
Accumulated amortization
As of January 1, 2023 1,301 279 1,636 180 442 794 4,632
Changes in the scope of
consolidation – – – – – – –
Additions 168 62 265 29 354 – 879
of which impairments – – 1 – 266 – 267
Disposals -129 -18 -96 -13 -27 – -283
Transfers – – -1 – 1 – –
Transfers to disposal groups – – – – – – –
Currency effects -37 -5 -35 – -4 -24 -105
As of December 31, 2023 1,303 319 1,770 196 765 769 5,122
Net carrying amount as of
December 31, 2023 940 990 2,526 127 132 7,499 12,216
a Including licenses to such rights and values
In both years, BASF’s goodwill was allocated to 20 cash-generating units, which are defined either on
the basis of business units or at a higher level.
Steering and reporting structures were adjusted with the introduction of the Differentiated Steering
concept as of 2024. This also resulted in changes to internal goodwill monitoring. For this reason, the
affected cash-generating units in the Coatings, Care Chemicals, Dispersions & Resins, Intermediates and
Petrochemicals divisions have since been combined or expanded at a higher level to reflect the adjusted
structures. Accordingly, annual impairment tests have been performed in a total of 14 cash-generating
units or groups of cash-generating units at division level since 2024.
In the second quarter of 2024, an impairment test was performed for the battery materials cash-
generating unit, which is allocated to the Catalysts division, in light of developments in the business
environment. The test showed no indications of goodwill impairment as of June 30, 2024.
For the impairment test of the battery materials cash-generating unit as of December 31, 2024, the
recoverable amount was determined based on fair value less costs of disposal. Based on the parameters
used, this is a level 3 fair value.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 382
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
It exceeded the unit’s value in use. A detailed planning period of ten years was used to reflect expected
market developments. A delay in demand for electric vehicles and the associated battery materials is
anticipated in the years to come. In the medium term, however, demand for battery materials is expected
to grow.
The ongoing transformation of the automotive industry is expected to have a significant impact on the
emissions catalyst business, which belongs to the Catalysts (excluding battery materials) cash-
generating unit. Because there were no changes in planning assumptions from the previous year, the
growth rate for perpetual annuity remained unchanged at -0.7%. Due to higher environmental standards,
demand for catalysts is still expected to remain stable in the planning period. In the medium term, the
transition from combustion engines to electromobility will lead to a steady decline in demand.
Increased volatility in gas and raw materials prices can be expected during the year due to geopolitical
conflicts. For the individual years within the planning period, however, average gas and other raw
materials prices are expected to remain stable or decrease slightly. These and other macroeconomic
factors such as the further decline in inflation in industrial countries will be accounted for in future
business expectations.
Goodwill of cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units
Million € 2024
Weighted
cost of capital
Cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units Goodwill after taxes Growth ratea
Agricultural Solutions division 3,341 6.30% 2.00%
Catalysts division (excluding battery materials) 1,344 7.57% -0.70%
Battery materials in the Catalysts division 330 7.57% 2.00%
Care Chemicals division 677 6.64% 2.00%
Coatings division 723 7.57% 2.00%
Performance Chemicals division 349 6.84% 2.00%
Other cash-generating units 957 6.64%–7.08% 0.00%–2.00%
Goodwill as of December 31 7,721
a Growth rates used in impairment tests to determine terminal values in accordance with IAS 36
Goodwill of cash-generating units
Million € 2023
Weighted
cost of capital
Cash-generating unit Goodwill after taxes Growth ratea
Agricultural Solutions division 3,236 6.52% 2.00%
Catalysts division (excluding battery materials) 1,297 8.14% -0.70%
Battery materials in the Catalysts division 317 8.36% 2.00%
Personal Care Ingredients in the Care Chemicals division 504 7.06% 2.00%
Surface Treatment in the Coatings division 688 8.14% 2.00%
Performance Chemicals division 347 8.03% 2.00%
Other cash-generating units 1,109 6.47%–8.56% 0.00%–2.00%
Goodwill as of December 31 7,499
a Growth rates used in impairment tests to determine terminal values in accordance with IAS 36
The annual impairment tests of the 14 cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units were
performed as of December 31, 2024. The calculation also takes into account capital structure and the
beta factor of the respective peer group as well as the average tax rate of each cash-generating unit.
Impairment tests were performed on the units assuming a weighted average cost of capital rate after
taxes of between 6.30% and 7.58% (previous year: between 6.47% and 8.56%). This corresponds to a
BASF Report 2024 Notes 383
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
weighted average cost of capital rate before taxes of between 7.74% and 10.19% (previous year:
between 8.12% and 11.33%).
After determining the recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units, the conclusion was that
reasonable possible deviations from the key assumptions would not lead to the carrying amount of any
unit exceeding the respective recoverable amounts except in the battery materials unit, which is
allocated to the Surface Technologies segment.
In the annual impairment test of the battery materials cash-generating unit, a weighted cost of capital
after taxes of 7.57% (previous year: 8.36%) and an EBITDA margin from the last detailed planning year
were used as the basis to calculate the final value of 11.51% (previous year: 11.84%). The recoverable
amount for this unit exceeded the carrying amount by €341 million. The recoverable amount would be
equal to the unit’s carrying amount if the weighted average cost of capital rose by 0.89 percentage
points, the growth rate were 1.77 percentage points lower, or the EBITDA margin in the last detailed
planning year used as the basis for calculating the final value were 2.00 percentage points lower.
14.2 Explanation of property, plant and equipment
The weighted average depreciation periods were as follows:
Weighted average depreciation in years
2024 2023
Buildings and structural installations 18 18
Machinery and technical equipment 10 11
Miscellaneous equipment and fixtures 7 7
The following table shows the development of property, plant and equipment including right-of-use
assets recognized by BASF as lessee (for more information on leases, see Note 15 from page 388
onward).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 384
Development of property, plant and equipment including right-of-use assets arising from leases in 2024
Million €
dnaL
dnal
esu-fo-thgiR
sgnidliuB
sgnidliub
esu-fo-thgiR
lacinhcet
dna
yrenihcaM tnempiuqe
dna
yrenihcam
esu-fo-thgiR
tnempiuqe
lacinhcet
suoenallecsiM
serutxif
dna
tnempiuqe
suoenallecsim
esu-fo-thgiR
serutxif
dna
tnempiuqe
dna
stnemyap
ecnavdA
ssergorp
ni
noitcurtsnoc
latoT
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Cost
As of January 1, 2024 878 695 12,136 1,129 49,184 759 5,291 1,112 6,701 77,884
Changes in the scope
of consolidation – – – – 1 – – – – 2
Additions 14 23 166 125 771 72 213 208 4,914 6,506
Additions from
acquisitions – 7 40 – 137 1 3 – – 188
Disposals -7 -22 -104 -64 -510 -13 -276 -121 -62 -1,180
Transfers 2 – 410 – 1,505 – 163 -1 -2,072 7
Transfers to disposal
groups -11 -1 -54 – -111 -3 -12 – -3 -195
Currency effects 7 18 160 17 873 19 80 9 234 1,416
As of
December 31, 2024 883 720 12,753 1,207 51,849 834 5,461 1,208 9,712 84,627
Accumulated
depreciation
As of January 1, 2024 49 173 7,665 544 39,936 453 4,138 586 260 53,804
Changes in the scope
of consolidation – – – – 1 – – – – 1
Additions 2 24 547 127 2,504 95 381 191 107 3,978
of which
impairments 1 2 162 3 388 1 26 – 108 689
Disposals – -22 -98 -47 -499 -12 -249 -115 -60 -1,103
Transfers – – 4 – 6 – 7 -1 -19 -3
Transfers to disposal
groups – – -25 – -90 -2 -10 – – -127
Currency effects 2 4 102 7 688 10 63 4 – 879
As of
December 31, 2024 52 179 8,194 632 42,546 544 4,331 664 288 57,430
Net carrying amount
as of
December 31, 2024 832 541 4,558 575 9,303 290 1,131 544 9,424 27,197
BASF Report 2024 Notes 385
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Additions to property, plant and equipment arising from investment projects (excluding leases)
amounted to €6,078 million in 2024 (previous year: €5,255 million). Investments were made at the
following sites in particular: Zhanjiang, China; Ludwigshafen, Germany; Geismar, Louisiana; Antwerp,
Belgium; and Chalampé, France. Material investments included the development of infrastructure and
technical equipment at the new Verbund site in Zhanjiang, modification and capacity expansion of the
MDI plant in Geismar, and construction of the hexamethylenediamine plant in Chalampé. Investments
also included construction of the menthol and linalool plants, construction of the water electrolysis plant
as well as modification of the acid chloride and chloroformate plant in Ludwigshafen.
Government grants for funding investment measures reduced asset additions by €73 million (previous
year: €48 million).
In 2024, accumulated depreciation included impairments in the amount of €694 million (previous year:
€883 million) and reversals of impairments to an immaterial extent in the amount of €5 million (previous
year: €6 million).
Impairments of €532 million were recognized for technical equipment, buildings and plants under
construction in the Surface Technologies segment. These impairments were due to weakened demand
and affected mainly production sites in Europe. A further impairment of €34 million was recognized in the
Chemicals segment for technical equipment at the production site in Ludwigshafen, Germany, resulting
from the worsened expected cost position caused by persistently high gas prices in Europe. The value in
use of the remaining partially impaired plants was €244 million. A cost of capital rate after taxes of 7.06%
was used in this impairment test. This corresponds to a cost of capital rate before taxes of 11.23%.
Impairments to plants under construction in the amount of €31 million related to discontinued investment
projects.
Transfers comprised mainly the reclassification of operation-ready assets from construction in progress
to other asset categories.
Transfers to disposal groups included the reclassified amounts for the Food and Health Performance
Ingredients business as well as property, plant and equipment for BASF Markor Chemical Manufacturing
(Xinjiang) Co., Ltd.
Currency effects increased property, plant and equipment by €537 million and resulted primarily from
appreciation of the U.S. dollar and the Chinese renminbi against the euro.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 386
Development of property, plant and equipment including right-of-use assets arising from leases in 2023
Million €
dnaL
dnal
esu-fo-thgiR
sgnidliuB
sgnidliub
esu-fo-thgiR
lacinhcet
dna
yrenihcaM tnempiuqe
dna
yrenihcam
esu-fo-thgiR
tnempiuqe
lacinhcet
dna
tnempiuqe
suoenallecsiM
serutxif
suoenallecsim
esu-fo-thgiR
serutxif
dna
tnempiuqe
dna
stnemyap
ecnavdA
ssergorp
ni
noitcurtsnoc
latoT
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Cost
As of January 1, 2023 939 732 11,855 1,036 48,559 736 5,268 886 5,135 75,145
Changes in the scope
of consolidation – – – – – – – – – –
Additions 1 2 187 169 808 84 180 353 4,080 5,864
Disposals -35 -4 -183 -53 -995 -40 -241 -118 -100 -1,769
Transfers 1 – 477 – 1,604 -4 168 – -2,251 -5
Transfers to disposal
groups – – – – – – – – – –
Currency effects -27 -34 -200 -23 -793 -18 -84 -10 -162 -1,352
As of
December 31, 2023 878 695 12,136 1,129 49,184 759 5,291 1,112 6,701 77,884
Accumulated
depreciation
As of January 1, 2023 61 146 7,399 433 39,115 402 4,032 515 76 52,179
Changes in the scope
of consolidation – – – – – – – – – –
Additions 2 35 525 172 2,372 97 394 185 280 4,063
of which
impairments 1 13 149 46 355 4 27 2 280 877
Disposals -13 -2 -157 -47 -961 -35 -231 -108 -85 -1,639
Transfers – – 3 – 4 -2 5 – -10 –
Transfers to disposal
groups – – – – – – – – – –
Currency effects -1 -7 -105 -14 -593 -10 -62 -6 -1 -797
As of
December 31, 2023 49 173 7,665 544 39,936 453 4,138 586 260 53,804
Net carrying amount
as of
December 31, 2023 829 522 4,471 585 9,247 306 1,153 526 6,440 24,080
BASF Report 2024 Notes 387
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
15 Leases
Accounting policies
A lease is an agreement that conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a defined
period of time in return for a payment.
Leases can be embedded within other contracts. If separation is required under IFRS, the embedded
lease is recorded separately from its host contract and each component of the contract is accounted and
measured in accordance with the applicable regulations.
Leases in which BASF is a lessee mainly relate to real estate, transportation and technical equipment.
As lessee, BASF accounts for all leases, recognizing right-of-use assets for leased assets and liabilities
for lease agreements subject to the following principles:
– BASF exercises the exemption for lease agreements with a maximum term of 12 months from the date
of provision and low-value assets. Low-value assets are generally defined as leased assets worth a
maximum of €5,000.
– Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, taking into
account the incremental borrowing rate.
– As a general rule, BASF separates non-lease components, such as services, from lease payments.
– A right-of-use asset is generally recognized at the same amount as the lease liability. Differences may
arise from the lease payments made prior to the provision of the leased asset, less any lease
incentives received.
– After capitalization, the right-of-use asset is generally depreciated over the lease term using the
straight-line method.
– A number of leases, particularly for real estate and barges, include extension and termination options.
Extension and termination options are taken into account on recognition of the lease liability only if
BASF is reasonably certain that these options will be exercised in the future. When contract terms are
being determined, consideration is given to all facts and circumstances that offer an economic
incentive for exercising extension options or not exercising termination options. Changes in lease
terms arising from the exercise of an extension option or non-exercise of a termination option are only
considered if sufficient certainty exists. Estimates and expectations which are asserted at the
commencement date of the lease liability and the right-of-use asset and pertain to future payments not
yet determined on the date of provision are assessed continuously during the lease term. If
subsequently improved or changed knowledge influences the expected payment profile over time, the
lease liability is remeasured.
– If an existing lease contract is modified, the lease liability and right-of-use asset must be remeasured,
provided the modification changes the payment profile (pursuant to the interest and principal plan) or
the scope (either quantitatively or time-related) of use of the asset.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 388
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Explanation of leases
BASF as lessee
Lease liabilities
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Future Future
Lease lease Lease lease
liabilities Interest portion payments liabilities Interest portion payments
Following year 1 340 53 393 350 51 401
Following year 2 253 44 297 234 39 273
Following year 3 183 39 222 171 32 203
Following year 4 143 32 175 134 29 163
Following year 5 107 27 134 106 26 132
Over 5 years 638 174 812 654 174 828
Total 1,664 369 2,033 1,649 351 2,000
Expenses and income in the statement of income from leases for BASF as lessee
Million € 2024 2023
Interest expenses for lease liabilities -66 -53
Expenses for variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities -8 -13
Income from sublease agreements 4 2
Expenses for short-term leases -157 -151
Expenses for leases for low-value assets -36 -35
Total -263 -250
There were no significant sale and leaseback transactions in 2024 or 2023.
BASF as lessor
BASF acts as a lessor for finance leases to a minor extent only. Receivables on finance leases were
€31 million in 2024 (previous year: €33 million). The leased assets pertained primarily to buildings and
production facilities.
Claims arising from operating leases amounted to €243 million in 2024 (previous year: €254 million). As in
the previous year, there were no material operating leases for property, plant and equipment.
Future lease payments to BASF from operating lease contracts
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Following year 1 46 49
Following year 2 38 40
Following year 3 37 38
Following year 4 36 37
Following year 5 36 36
Over 5 years 50 54
Total 243 254
BASF Report 2024 Notes 389
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Income from leases for BASF as lessor
Million € 2024 2023
Income from finance leases 2 2
of which financial income from net investments 2 2
Income from operating leases 46 46
of which income from variable lease payments not dependent upon an index or interest rate – 1
Total 48 48
16 Inventories
Accounting policies
Inventories are measured at acquisition cost or cost of conversion based on the weighted average
method. If the sales products’ market price or fair value based on net realizable value is lower, the sales
products are written down to this lower value. The net realizable value is the estimated price in the
ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated selling costs.
Inventories may be impaired if the prices of the sales products decline, or in cases of a high rate of days
sales of inventory (DSI). Write-downs on inventories are reversed if the reasons for them no longer apply.
In addition to direct costs, cost of conversion includes an appropriate allocation of production overhead
costs based on normal utilization rates of the production plants, provided they are related to the
production process. Pensions, social services and voluntary social benefits are also included, as well as
allocations for administrative costs, provided they relate to the production. Borrowing costs are not
included in cost of conversion.
The exception made by IAS 2 for traders is applied to the measurement of precious metals. Accordingly,
inventories held for trading purposes are measured at fair value less costs to sell and recognized in the
precious metal trading item under miscellaneous current assets. All changes in value are immediately
recognized in the statement of income.
Explanation of inventories
Inventories
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Raw materials and factory supplies 4,602 4,543
Work in progress, finished goods and merchandise 8,980 9,257
Advance payments and services in progress 99 75
Inventories 13,681 13,876
Work in progress, finished goods and merchandise are combined into one item due to production
conditions in the chemical industry. Services in progress mainly relate to services not invoiced as of the
balance sheet date.
Cost of sales included inventories recognized as an expense amounting to €33,544 million in 2024, and
€37,222 million in 2023.
Reversals of write-downs on inventory were recognized in the amount of €52 million in 2024, whereas
write-downs on inventory in the amount of €5 million were recognized in 2023. Climate-related risks, as
described in Note 1.4 (from page 341 onward), did not result in any additional write-downs in either year.
The carrying amount of precious metal inventories held for trading purposes was €702 million as of
December 31, 2024 (previous year: €1,139 million).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 390
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
17 Receivables and miscellaneous assets
Other receivables and miscellaneous assets
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Noncurrent Current Noncurrent Current
Loans and interest receivables 52 119 57 182
Derivatives with positive fair values 395 555 472 580
Receivables from finance leases 29 2 30 3
Receivables from capital equipment of nonconsolidated
subsidiaries 42 148 45 142
Receivables from bank acceptance drafts – 234 – 273
Other 321 271 327 292
Other receivables and assets that qualify as financial
instruments 839 1,329 931 1,472
Prepaid expenses 68 264 76 225
Defined benefit assets 1,383 – 170 –
Other tax receivables 51 501 53 600
Employee receivables – 23 – 29
Precious metal trading items – 702 – 1,139
Emission rights – 84 – 5
Other 25 353 28 318
Other receivables and assets that do not qualify as
financial instruments 1,527 1,927 327 2,316
Other receivables and miscellaneous assets 2,366 3,256 1,258 3,788
The decrease in current loans and interest receivables primarily related to repayments of loans granted
to partner companies in China.
The change in noncurrent and current derivatives with positive fair values was mainly due to a decline
in market value of commodity derivatives on precious metals.
Bank acceptance drafts are used as a means of payment in China. Bank acceptance drafts are issued
at a discount to their nominal value. They can be held to maturity, traded or redeemed prematurely at a
discount. If BASF discounts a bank acceptance draft with recourse, a liability toward the credit institution
is recognized in the amount of the payment received.
Noncurrent other receivables that qualify as financial instruments mainly include a receivable from
the retrospective initial fund loan to the BASF Pensionskasse (pension fund) as well as receivables from
customer financing in North America. Current other receivables that qualify as financial instruments
primarily consist of call deposits with banks, receivables from suppliers as well as receivables from
customer financing.
Prepaid expenses in 2024 mainly included prepayments of €39 million for operating activities compared
with €38 million in 2023, as well as €78 million in prepaid insurance premiums in 2024 compared with
€72 million in 2023. Prepayments for license costs increased from €59 million in 2023 to €72 million in
2024.
As in the previous year, defined benefit assets were recognized in 2024 mainly at Group companies in
Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. An asset ceiling was in effect in 2024 and 2023 for
pension plans in Switzerland (for more information, see Note 21 from page 400 onward).
The change in current other tax receivables was largely attributable to the decrease in sales tax
receivables.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 391
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Precious metal trading items primarily comprise physical items, precious metal accounts as well as
long positions in precious metals, most of which were hedged through forward sales or derivatives.
Emission rights granted free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) or a
comparable authority in other countries are recognized in the balance sheet at a value of zero.
Certificates purchased on the market are capitalized at cost and reported as other assets. Emission
rights purchased on the market are subsequently measured at amortized cost. If the fair value is lower
than the carrying amount on the balance sheet date, the emission rights are impaired.
The rise in current other receivables and assets that do not qualify as financial instruments resulted
mainly from higher advance payments.
The table below presents the gross values and credit risks for trade accounts receivable other than trade
accounts receivable measured at fair value through profit or loss, and other receivables as of
December 31, 2024.
Gross carrying amounts of receivables (financial instruments)
Accounts receivable,
Million € trade Other receivablesb
Equivalence to
external ratinga Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3
High/medium credit rating from AAA to BBB– 6,258 23 532 1 113
Low credit rating from BB– to D 3,808 259 543 33 47
Gross carrying amount as of
December 31, 2024 10,066 282 1,075 33 161
High/medium credit rating from AAA to BBB– 6,430 6 602 8 118
Low credit rating from BB– to D 3,674 256 596 27 67
Gross carrying amount as of
December 31, 2023 10,104 262 1,198 35 186
a Standard & Poor’s rating
b Other receivables (financial instruments) subject to the impairment model according to IFRS 9
There are currently no significant credit risks (or a concentration thereof) associated with other financial
instruments.
Valuation allowances on receivables (financial instruments) 2024
Reclassifica-
As of tion between Translation As of
Million € Jan. 1, 2024 Additions Releases stages adjustment Dec. 31, 2024
Accounts receivable,
trade 269 129 -97 -1 -12 288
of which stage 2 38 42 -37 – – 43
stage 3 231 87 -60 -1 -12 245
Other receivables 157 18 -34 – 1 142
of which stage 1 7 3 -2 – – 8
stage 2 – – – – – –
stage 3 150 14 -32 – 1 133
Total 426 147 -131 -1 -11 430
BASF Report 2024 Notes 392
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Valuation allowances on receivables (financial instruments) 2023
Reclassifica-
As of tion between Translation As of
Million € Jan. 1, 2023 Additions Releases stages adjustment Dec. 31, 2023
Accounts receivable,
trade 319 134 -181 1 -4 269
of which stage 2 44 61 -66 1 -2 38
stage 3 275 73 -115 – -2 231
Other receivables 118 58 -18 – -1 157
of which stage 1 4 5 -2 – – 7
stage 2 1 – -1 – – –
stage 3 113 53 -15 – -1 150
Total 437 192 -199 1 -5 426
Payment terms are generally agreed upon individually with customers and, as a rule, are within 90 days.
In 2024, valuation allowances of €129 million (previous year: €134 million) were added for trade accounts
receivable, and valuation allowances of €97 million (previous year: €181 million) were reversed.
In 2024, valuation allowances of €18 million were recognized for other receivables that qualify as financial
instruments, and valuation allowances of €34 million were reversed. In the previous year, valuation
allowances of €58 million were recognized and valuation allowances of €18 million were reversed (for
more information, see Note 25 from page 412 onward).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 393
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
18 Capital, reserves and retained earnings
Subscribed capital
BASF SE has only issued fully paid-up registered shares with no par value. There are no preferential
rights or other restrictions.
The subscribed capital of BASF SE as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, was
€1,142 million, divided into 892,522,164 qualifying shares with no par value.
Share buyback / treasury shares
By way of a resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of April 29, 2022, the Board of Executive
Directors was authorized to buy back shares until April 28, 2027, in accordance with section 71(1) no. 8
of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).
The buyback may not exceed 10% of the company’s share capital at the time the resolution was passed
and can take place via the stock exchange, a public purchase offer addressed to all shareholders, or a
public invitation to the shareholders to submit sales offers.
The Board of Executive Directors is authorized to redeem the shares bought back without a further
resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and to reduce the share capital by the proportion of the
share capital accounted for by the redeemed shares. The Board of Executive Directors can also redeem
the shares without reducing the share capital so that the proportion of the other shares in relation to the
share capital is increased through the redemption. In that event, the Board of Executive Directors is
authorized to adjust the number of shares in the Statutes.
The share buyback authorization was not utilized in 2024.
Authorized capital
In accordance with the resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 3, 2019, the Board of
Executive Directors was authorized, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to increase, until
May 2, 2024, on a one-off basis or in portions on a number of occasions, the company’s share capital by
a total of up to €470 million by issuing new shares against contributions in cash or in kind and thereby to
also exclude shareholders’ statutory subscription right in certain cases (Authorized Capital 2019). This
authorization was not exercised. It expired on May 2, 2024.
To enable the company to cover its future financial needs quickly and flexibly, new authorized capital
was created against contributions in cash or in kind with the option to exclude the subscription right.
In accordance with the resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2024, the Board of
Executive Directors was authorized, with the consent of the Supervisory Board, to increase the
company's share capital by a total of up to €300 million on a one-off basis or in portions on a number of
occasions until April 24, 2029, by issuing new registered shares with no par value against contributions in
cash or in kind, and thereby to also exclude shareholders' statutory subscription right in certain cases
(Authorized Capital 2024).
The total shares issued on the basis of the above authorization with the exclusion of the shareholders’
subscription right in the case of capital increases in return for contributions in cash or in kind must not
exceed 10% of the share capital at the time that this authorization comes into effect or – if this value is
lower – at the time of its exercise.
Shares issued during the term of this authorization on the basis of other capital measures excluding the
subscription right must be credited against the aforementioned ceiling of 10%.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 394
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
This new authorization was also not exercised in 2024.
Conditional capital
At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 29, 2022, the Board of Executive Directors was authorized,
with the approval of the Supervisory Board, up to April 28, 2027, on a one-off basis or in portions on
more than one occasion to issue bearer or registered convertible bonds and/or bonds with warrants or a
combination of these instruments with or without maturity limitations with a total nominal value of up to
€10 billion and to grant or impose holders and/or creditors of these debt instruments conversion or
option rights for up to 91,847,800 registered shares in the company with a pro rata amount of share
capital of up to €117,565,184 subject to the respective terms and conditions of the debt instruments. The
debt instruments can be issued in exchange for contributions in cash, but also for contributions in kind,
particularly shareholdings in other companies.
To hedge the subscription right to conversion and option rights issued under the authorization, the share
capital was increased conditionally by up to €117,565,184 with the option of issuing a maximum of
91,847,800 new registered BASF shares. The conditional capital increase shall only be carried out to the
extent to which holders of convertible bonds or warrants attached to bonds with warrants issued by the
company or one of its subsidiaries up to April 28, 2027, under the authorization granted to the Board of
Executive Directors, exercise their conversion or option rights and/or fulfill their conversion or option
obligations, and provided that no other forms of fulfillment of delivery are used. The new BASF shares
shall be issued at the conversion or option prices determined in each case in the terms and conditions of
the debt instruments and/or the warrants in accordance with the above-mentioned authorization. The
new BASF shares issued under this provision shall participate in profits from the beginning of the
financial year in which they are issued. This authorization had also not been exercised as of the end of
the 2024 fiscal year.
Capital reserves
Capital reserves include effects from BASF’s share program, premiums from capital increases and
consideration for warrants and negative goodwill from the capital consolidation resulting from
acquisitions of subsidiaries in exchange for the issue of BASF SE shares at par value. In 2024, the
valuation of BASF shares in connection with the BASF “plus” share program led to a decline in capital
reserves of €0 million. In the previous year, capital reserves decreased by €9 million.
Retained earnings
Retained earnings include earnings generated in the past and in 2024 by companies included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Retained earnings
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Legal reserves 1,088 1,066
Other retained earnings 29,795 31,450
Retained earnings 30,883 32,517
Legal reserves rose by €22 million in 2024 and by €35 million in 2023 due to reclassifications from other
retained earnings.
As part of the sale of Wintershall Dea's E&P business to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom,
the amount of €90 million from the remeasurement of defined benefit plans was reclassified to retained
earnings in 2024. In 2023, the amount of €59 million from the remeasurement of defined benefit plans
was reclassified to retained earnings.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 395
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Payment of dividends
In accordance with the resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2024, BASF SE paid a
dividend of €3.40 (previous year: €3.40) per qualifying share from the retained profit of the 2023 fiscal
year. With 892,522,164 (previous year: 892,522,164) qualifying shares, this represented total dividends of
€3,035 million (previous year: €3,035 million). The remaining €4,399 million (previous year: €814 million) in
retained profits was allocated to retained earnings.
19 Other comprehensive income
Accounting policies
The expenses and income shown in other comprehensive income are divided into two categories: items
that will be recognized in the income statement in the future (known as “recycling”) and items that will not
be reclassified to the income statement in the future. The first category includes gains and losses from
currency translation, the measurement of certain securities classified as debt instruments, and changes
in the fair value of derivatives held to hedge future cash flows. Items that will not be reclassified to the
income statement at a future date include effects from the remeasurement of defined benefit plans.
Remeasurement of defined benefit plans
In 2024, changes in the value of defined benefit plans led to an increase in other comprehensive income
of €1,477 million (after taxes of €273 million) of which €23 million related to investments accounted for
using the equity method. In addition, the amount of €90 million was reclassified to retained earnings in
connection with the sale of the E&P business of Wintershall Dea AG (Wintershall Dea GmbH since
September 23, 2024), Kassel/Hamburg, Germany, to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom,
which is accounted for using the equity method. In addition, the change in BASF's share of assets in
BASF Pensionskasse as a multi-employer plan resulted in a decrease in other comprehensive income of
€98 million. In 2023, there was a decrease in other comprehensive income of €591 million (after taxes of
€100 million); of that amount, €16 million related to investments accounted for using the equity method
(for more information, see Note 21 from page 400 onward).
Currency translation
Differences resulting from currency translation led to an increase in equity by a total of €782 million in
2024; of that amount, €215 million related to investments accounted for using the equity method. These
amounts include the reclassification of an expense of €43 million to the income statement in connection
with the sale of Wintershall Dea's E&P business. In addition, €10 million was reclassified as profit in the
income statement in connection with the liquidation of a fully consolidated company.
In the previous year, equity was reduced by €1,220 million; of that amount, €234 million related to
investments accounted for using the equity method.
In 2024, the differences resulted mainly from the appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro. In
2023, the differences were mainly due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar and the Chinese renminbi
relative to the euro.
Measurement of securities at fair value
Measurement of debt instruments at fair value led to a decrease in other comprehensive income of
€1 million in 2024. The €172 million decrease in 2023 resulted from impairments of equity instruments
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income pursuant to IFRS 9 in the amount of
€180 million at Wintershall Dea, which is accounted for using the equity method.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 396
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated in hedging relationships (cash flow hedges) adjusted
for deferred taxes in the amount of €7 million reduced equity by a total of €114 million, including
€100 million for hedging of future cash flows at shareholdings accounted for using the equity method. In
the previous year, changes in fair value adjusted for deferred taxes in the amount of €8 million increased
equity by a total of 570€ million; this included €588 million for the hedging of future cash flows at
shareholdings accounted for using the equity method.
As part of the sale of Wintershall Dea's E&P business, €2 million from cumulative changes in the fair
value of derivatives was reclassified to the income statement as an expense in 2024.
20 Liabilities
Financial indebtedness
Carrying amounts based on
Million € effective interest method
Nominal value
(million, Effective
Currency currency of issue) interest rate Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
BASF SE
2.500 % Bond 2014/2024 EUR 500 2.60 % – 500
1.750 % Bond 2017/2025 GBP 300 1.87 % 362 345
0.875 % Bond 2018/2025 EUR 750 0.97 % 750 749
3.675 % Bond 2013/2025 NOK 1,450 3.70 % 123 129
0.750 % Bond 2022/2026 EUR 1,000 0.82 % 999 999
0.250 % Bond 2020/2027 EUR 1,000 0.32 % 998 998
0.875 % Bond 2017/2027 EUR 1,000 1.04 % 995 994
3.125 % Bond 2022/2028 EUR 750 3.27 % 747 746
2.670 % Bond 2017/2029 NOK 1,600 2.69 % 136 142
0.875 % Bond 2019/2029 EUR 250 1.01 % 249 248
4.000 % Bond 2023/2029 EUR 500 4.08 % 499 498
1.500 % Bond 2018/2030 EUR 500 1.63 % 497 496
1.500 % Bond 2016/2031 EUR 200 1.58 % 199 199
1.500 % Bond 2022/2031 EUR 1,000 1.53 % 998 998
0.875 % Bond 2016/2031 EUR 500 1.01 % 496 495
2.370 % Bond 2016/2031 HKD 1,300 2.37 % 161 151
4.250 % Bond 2023/2032 EUR 500 4.30 % 498 498
3.750 % Bond 2022/2032 EUR 750 3.85 % 745 745
1.450 % Bond 2017/2032 EUR 300 1.57 % 298 297
3.000 % Bond 2013/2033 EUR 500 3.15 % 495 494
2.875 % Bond 2013/2033 EUR 200 2.96 % 199 199
4.000 % Bond 2018/2033 AUD 160 4.24 % 94 97
4.500 % Bond 2023/2035 EUR 500 4.54 % 498 498
1.625 % Bond 2017/2037 EUR 750 1.73 % 741 740
3.250 % Bond 2013/2043 EUR 200 3.27 % 200 200
1.025 % Bond 2018/2048 JPY 10,000 1.03 % 61 64
U.S. private placement
3.890 % series A 2013/2025 USD 250 3.92 % 241 226
U.S. private placement
4.090 % series B 2013/2028 USD 700 4.11 % 673 633
U.S. private placement
5.520 % 2024/2030 USD 350 5.64 % 336 −
U.S. private placement
5.670 % 2024/2033 USD 250 5.78 % 240 −
BASF Report 2024 Notes 397
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
U.S. private placement
5.710 % 2024/2034 USD 400 5.82 % 384 −
U.S. private placement
4.430 % series C 2013/2034 USD 300 4.45 % 288 271
U.S. private placement
5.810 % 2024/2036 USD 200 5.92 % 192 −
U.S. private placement
5.910 % 2024/2039 USD 300 6.01 % 288 −
BASF Finance Europe N.V.
3.625 % Bond 2018/2025 USD 200 3.69 % 192 181
0.750 % Bond 2016/2026 EUR 500 0.88 % 499 498
BASF Ireland DAC
2.390 % Panda Bond CNY 2,000 2.39 % 263 –
BASF Corporation
6.950 % Bond 1998/2028 USD 120 6.95 % 118 112
Bonds and other liabilities to the
capital market 15,751 14,438
Liabilities to credit institutions 6,011 4,830
Financial indebtedness 21,762 19,268
BASF Report 2024 Notes 398
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Breakdown of financial indebtedness by currency
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Euro 14,228 15,408
U.S. dollar 3,281 1,735
Chinese renminbi 2,515 424
Pound sterling 362 345
Japanese yen 274 221
Norwegian krone 258 271
Hong Kong dollar 161 151
South African rand 102 80
Australian dollar 94 97
Indonesian rupiah 67 48
Brazilian real 45 64
Thai baht 20 39
Turkish lira 8 60
Indian rupee – 60
Argentine peso – 7
Other currencies 345 260
Total 21,762 19,268
Maturities of financial indebtedness
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Following year 1 2,639 2,182
Following year 2 2,723 1,904
Following year 3 2,662 2,681
Following year 4 1,875 2,383
Following year 5 982 1,818
Following year 6 and maturities beyond this year 10,880 8,300
Total 21,762 19,268
Liabilities to credit institutions
Liabilities to credit institutions increased from €4,830 million as of December 31, 2023, to €6,011 million
as of December 31, 2024. The weighted average interest rate on loans amounted to 3.9% in 2024,
compared with 4.2% in 2023.
In 2023, BASF Integrated Site (Guangdong) Co. Ltd., China, signed a 40 billion Chinese renminbi
syndicated bank term loan facility with a maturity of 15 years for its Verbund site in Zhanjiang, and had
utilized an amount of 17 billion Chinese renminbi (€2,130 million) as of December 31, 2024. When drawn,
the interest rate is variable.
Unused credit lines
BASF SE had committed and unused credit lines, when drawn with variable interest rates, amounting to
€6,000 million as of December 31, 2024 (previous year: €6,000 million).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 399
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Other liabilities
Other liabilities
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Noncurrent Current Noncurrent Current
Derivatives with negative fair values 77 249 135 192
Liabilities from leases 1,323 340 1,299 350
Loan and interest liabilities 10 561 16 415
Advances received on future orders − 727 − 779
Miscellaneous liabilities 46 934 45 560
Other liabilities that qualify as financial instruments 1,456 2,811 1,496 2,297
Liabilities related to social security 31 94 39 100
Employee liabilities 21 297 23 335
Liabilities from precious metal trading positions − 15 − 43
Contract liabilities 108 30 141 36
Deferred income 109 46 19 38
Miscellaneous liabilities 19 422 21 441
Other liabilities that do not qualify as financial
instruments 289 904 243 994
Other liabilities 1,744 3,714 1,739 3,291
Miscellaneous liabilities that qualify as financial instruments include, among others, liabilities arising
from unpaid dividends and profit and loss transfer agreements and liabilities arising from cash-pooling
accounts with nonconsolidated Group companies. The rise was particularly due to the out-of-court
settlement of the multidistrict litigation proceedings in connection with AFFF products in the United
States which becomes due for payment in 2025 (for more information, see Note 23 from page 411
onward).
The majority of contract liabilities have terms of up to five years. Of the contract liabilities reported as of
December 31, 2024, €43 million are expected to be recognized as revenue in 2025.
Carrying amounts of assets used to secure liabilities
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
To secure
liabilities to credit institutions 12 13
accounts payable, trade 6 4
other liabilities 54 41
Carrying amounts of assets used 71 58
Liabilities to credit institutions were secured primarily with registered land charges. Secured other
liabilities relate primarily to derivatives with negative fair values that are secured with cash. This results
in recognition of receivables under other receivables and miscellaneous assets.
21 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations
Economic and legal environment of the plans
In addition to state pension plans, most employees are granted company pension benefits from either
defined contribution or defined benefit plans. Benefits generally depend on years of service,
contributions or compensation, and take into consideration the legal framework of labor, tax and social
security laws of the countries where the companies are located. To limit the risks of changing financial
BASF Report 2024 Notes 400
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
market conditions as well as demographic developments, employees have, for a number of years now,
been almost exclusively offered defined contribution plans for future years of service.
The Group Pension Committee monitors the risks of all pension plans of the Group with regard to the
financing of pension commitments and the portfolio structure of existing plan assets. The organization,
responsibilities, strategy, implementation and reporting requirements are documented for the units
involved.
In some countries – especially in Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom and Switzerland –
there are pension obligations subject to government supervision or similar legal restrictions. For example,
there are minimum funding requirements to cover pension obligations, which are based on actuarial
assumptions and differ from those pursuant to IAS 19. Furthermore, there are qualitative and quantitative
restrictions on allocating plan assets to certain asset categories. This could result in annual fluctuations
in employer contributions, financing measures and the assumption of obligations in favor of the pension
funds to comply with regulatory requirements.
The obligations and the plan assets used to fund the obligations are exposed to demographic, legal and
economic risks. Economic risks are primarily due to unforeseen developments on commodity and capital
markets. They affect, for example, pension adjustments based on the level of inflation in Germany and in
the United Kingdom, as well as the impact of discount rates on the amount of the defined benefit
obligation.
The strategy of the BASF Group with regard to financing pension commitments takes into account
country-specific supervisory and tax regulations.
In some countries, pension benefits were granted for which the employer has a subsidiary liability.
Pension benefits in a number of countries include minimum interest guarantees to a limited extent. If the
pension fund cannot generate the income needed to provide the minimum guarantee, this guarantee
must be provided by the employer under the subsidiary liability. To the extent that recourse to the
employer is unlikely based on the structure and execution of the pension benefits as well as the asset
situation of the pension fund, these plans are treated as defined contribution plans.
Accounting policies
With regard to pensions and similar obligations, a distinction is made between defined benefit and
defined contribution plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, current contributions are recognized
as an expense.
In the case of defined benefit obligations, provisions for pensions are calculated on an actuarial basis in
accordance with the projected unit credit method. Assumptions relating to the following valuation
parameters, among others, are used: future developments in compensation, pensions and inflation,
employee turnover and the life expectancy of beneficiaries. Actuarial reports are used to calculate the
amount of pension provisions. Obligations are discounted based on the market yields on high-quality
corporate fixed-rate bonds. Pension provisions are recognized as a net defined benefit liability if the
discounted benefit obligation exceeds the plan assets used to cover it.
A plan asset surplus exists if a defined benefit plan’s assets exceed the plan’s obligations. IAS 19
requires the employer to test any such surplus for impairment. If no economic benefit (for example,
reduced contributions or a refund) to the company is present, an asset ceiling must be reported. Such an
asset ceiling was applied to the BASF Group’s Swiss pension plans in 2024 and 2023.
Similar obligations, especially those arising from commitments by North American Group companies to
pay the healthcare costs and life insurance premiums of retired staff and their dependents, are reported
under provisions for similar obligations.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 401
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The assumptions used to ascertain the defined benefit obligation as of December 31 are used in the
following year to determine the expenses for pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses from changes in estimates relating to the actuarial assumptions used to
calculate defined benefit obligations, the difference between standardized and actual returns on plan
assets, as well as the effects of the asset ceiling are recognized directly in equity as other comprehensive
income.
The interest on the net defined benefit liability at the beginning of the year is recognized in the financial
result. This is the difference between the interest cost of the defined benefit obligation and the
standardized interest return on plan assets as well as the interest cost for the asset ceiling. Net interest
expense of the respective fiscal year is based on the discount rate and the defined benefit obligation at
the beginning of the year. The expected contribution payments and benefits paid over the course of the
fiscal year are taken into account when determining net interest.
The standardized return on pension assets is determined by multiplying plan assets at the beginning of
the year by the discount rate used for existing defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year,
taking into account benefits paid from plan assets and contributions to plan assets during the year.
Description of the defined benefit plans
The following section describes the typical plan structure in the individual countries. Different
arrangements may exist, in particular due to the assumption of plans as part of acquisitions; however,
these do not have any material impact on the description of plans in the individual countries.
Germany
For BASF SE and German Group companies, a basic level of benefits is provided by BASF
Pensionskasse VVaG, a legally independent plan, which is financed by employer and employee
contributions as well as the return on plan assets. BASF SE ensures the necessary contributions to
adequately finance the benefits promised by BASF Pensionskasse VVaG. Some of the benefits financed
via BASF Pensionskasse VVaG are subject to adjustments that must be borne by its member companies
to the extent that these cannot be borne by BASF Pensionskasse VVaG due to the regulations imposed
by the German supervisory authority. In 2004, the basic benefit plan was closed for newly hired
employees at German BASF companies and replaced by a defined contribution plan. A new defined
contribution plan was introduced as of July 1, 2021, for new hires in the German BASF companies. At
BASF SE, occupational pension promises that exceed the basic level of benefits are financed under a
contractual trust arrangement by BASF Pensionstreuhand e.V.; at German Group companies, these
benefits are financed primarily via pension provisions. As of 2022, new employees receive a securities-
based pension award while other employees are granted benefits primarily based on cash balance plans.
Furthermore, employees are given the option of participating in various deferred compensation schemes.
United States
Employees are granted benefits based on defined contribution plans.
Effective 2010, the existing defined benefit plans were closed to further increases in benefits based on
future years of service, and benefits earned in the past were frozen. There is no entitlement to pension
adjustments to compensate for cost-of-living increases.
The legal and regulatory frameworks governing the plans are based on the U.S. Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA), which requires the plan sponsor to ensure a minimum funding level. Any
employer contributions necessary to meet the minimum funding level are based on the results of an
actuarial valuation. Furthermore, there are unfunded pension plans that are not subject to ERISA
requirements.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 402
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Additional similar obligations arise from plans that assume the healthcare costs and life insurance
premiums of retired employees and their dependents. Such plans have been closed to new entrants
since 2007. In addition, the amount of the benefits for such plans has been frozen.
Switzerland
The employees of the BASF Group in Switzerland receive a company pension, which is financed through
a pension fund by employer and employee contributions as well as the return on plan assets. The
pension plans are accounted for as defined benefit plans, as the obligatory minimum pension guaranteed
by law under the Swiss Pension Fund Act (BVG) is included in the scheme. All benefits vest immediately.
According to government regulations, the employer is obligated to make contributions, so that the
pension funds are able to grant the minimum benefits guaranteed by law. The pension funds are
managed by boards, where employer and employees are equally represented, which steer and monitor
the benefit plans and asset allocation.
United Kingdom
Employees are granted benefits based on a defined contribution plan.
The BASF Group also maintains defined benefit plans in the United Kingdom, which have been closed for
further increases based on future years of service. Adjustments to compensate for increases in the cost
of living until the beginning of retirement are legally required for beneficiaries of defined benefit plans.
The financing of the pension plans is determined by the provisions of the regulatory authority for
pensions and the relevant social and labor law requirements. The defined benefit plans are administered
by a trust company, whose Board of Trustees, according to the trustee agreement and law, represents
the interests of the beneficiaries and ensures that the benefits can be paid in the future. The required
funding is determined using technical valuations according to local regulations every three years.
Other countries
For Group companies in other countries, defined benefits are covered in some cases by pension
provisions, but mainly by external insurance companies or pension funds.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 403
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Actuarial assumptions
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation is based on the following key assumptions:
Actuarial assumptions
% Assumptions used to determine the defined benefit obligation as of December 31
Germany United States Switzerland United Kingdom
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rate 3.40 3.20 5.50 5.00 0.80 1.30 5.40 4.50
Projected pension
increase 2.00 2.20 – – – – 3.10 3.20
Assumptions used to determine expenses for pension benefits
% in the respective business year
Germany United States Switzerland United Kingdom
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rate 3.20 3.70 5.00 5.30 1.30 2.20 4.50 4.80
Projected pension
increase 2.20 2.20 – – – – 3.20 3.40
The discount rates for material pension obligations in Germany, the United States, Switzerland and the
United Kingdom are usually determined based on the standard Willis Towers Watson approach (e.g.
WTW RATE:Link model).
The majority of domestic pension obligations are subject to legally required regular adjustments to
current pension payments based on interim inflation developments. The effects of the next scheduled
pension adjustment on January 1, 2025, are reflected in the scope of obligations as of
December 31, 2024. The long-term inflation assumption as of December 31, 2024, was 2.00% (previous
year: 2.20%).
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation is generally performed using the most recent actuarial
mortality tables as of December 31 of the respective business year. Modified Heubeck 2018G mortality
tables were used to calculate obligations in Germany until 2023. In the reporting year, BASF's obligations
in Germany were reviewed, leading to the conversion to the standard Heubeck 2018G mortality tables,
as the prerequisites for a BASF modification could no longer be validated. Furthermore, in 2024 the
mortality tables for obligations in the United Kingdom were changed from SAPSS3 to SAPSS4.
Actuarial mortality tables (significant countries) as of December 31, 2024
Germany Heubeck Richttafeln 2018G
United States Pri-2012 base mortality tables with Scale MP-2021 projection
Switzerland BVG 2020 generational with CMI 2018 mortality improvement
United Kingdom SAPSS4 (standard actuarial mortality tables for self-administered plans (SAPS))
Sensitivity analysis
A change in the material actuarial assumptions would have the following effects on the defined benefit
obligation:
BASF Report 2024 Notes 404
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation as of December 31
Increase by Decrease by
Million € 0.5 percentage points 0.5 percentage points
2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rate -1,239 -1,303 1,386 1,459
Projected pension increase 1,036 1,026 -863 -867
An alternative valuation of the defined benefit obligation was performed to determine how changes in the
underlying assumptions influence the amount of the defined benefit obligation. A linear extrapolation of
these amounts based on alternative changes in the assumptions as well as an addition of combined
changes in the individual assumptions is not possible.
Explanation of the amounts in the statement of income and balance sheet
Composition of expenses for pension benefits
Million € 2024 2023
Expenses for defined benefit plans 245 235
Expenses for defined contribution plans 309 330
Expenses for pension benefits (recognized in income from operations) 554 565
Net interest expense from underfunded pension plans and similar obligations 161 136
Net interest income from pension plans -70 -65
Unwinding the discount on asset ceiling 5 10
Expenses for pension benefits (recognized in the financial result) 96 81
Development of defined benefit obligations
Million € 2024 2023
Defined benefit obligation as of January 1 23,213 21,670
Current service cost 252 235
Past service cost -7 0
Settlements / plan adjustments – -16
Interest cost 760 811
Benefits paid -1,109 -1,118
Employee contributions 35 36
Actuarial gains/losses -1,287 1,415
of which adjustments relating to financial mathematical assumptions -949 1,291
of which adjustments relating to demographic assumptions -58 -28
of which experience adjustments -276 152
Effects from acquisitions and divestitures -21 –
Addition of defined benefit plans that so far have been accounted for as defined contribution plans – 156
Other changes -64 0
Currency effects 192 24
Defined benefit obligation as of December 31 21,964 23,213
As of December 31, 2024, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation amounted to
12.3 years (previous year: 12.9 years).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 405
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Development of plan assets
Million € 2024 2023
Plan assets as of January 1 20,880 20,083
Standardized return on plan assets 670 740
Deviation between actual and standardized return on plan assets 452 670
Employer contributions 193 140
Employee contributions 35 36
Benefits paid -851 -995
Effects from acquisitions and divestitures – –
Settlements / plan adjustments – -17
Addition of defined benefit plans that so far have been accounted for as defined contribution plans – 155
Change in the share of assets attributable to BASF Group in BASF Pensionskasse VVaG as a
multi-employer plan -98 -39
Other changes -77 29
Currency effects 146 79
Plan assets as of December 31 21,350 20,880
Through continuous monitoring of the financing requirements of its pension plans, BASF strives to
achieve the necessary yields to fill financing gaps over the course of time. Company contributions for
2025 are currently expected to be around €190 million.
Development of net defined benefit liability
Million € 2024 2023
Net defined benefit liability as of January 1 -2,726 -2,018
Current service cost -252 -235
Past service cost 7 0
Settlements / plan adjustments – -1
Interest cost -760 -811
Standardized return on plan assets 670 740
Deviation between actual and standardized return on plan assets 452 670
Actuarial gains/losses of the defined benefit obligation 1,287 -1,415
Benefits paid by unfunded plans 258 123
Employer contributions 193 140
Addition of defined benefit plans that so far have been accounted for as defined contribution plans – -1
Change in the share of assets attributable to BASF Group in BASF Pensionskasse VVaG as a
multi-employer plan -98 -39
Effects from acquisitions and divestitures 21 0
Other changes -13 29
Currency effects -46 54
Change of asset ceiling for plan assets -13 38
Net defined benefit liability as of December 31 -1,020 -2,726
of which defined benefit assets 1,383 170
provisions for pensions and similar obligations 2,403 2,896
Effects from plan settlements and plan adjustments resulted in 2023 primarily from the transfer of
benefit entitlements and the corresponding assets from the pension plan in Canada to an external
insurer.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 406
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Regional allocation of defined benefit plans as of December 31
Net defined benefit
Million € Pension obligations Plan assets Asset ceiling liability
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Germany 15,516 16,563 15,205 14,687 – – -311 -1,876
United States 2,671 2,726 1,862 1,853 – – -809 -873
Switzerland 1,754 1,738 2,195 2,140 -406 -393 35 9
United Kingdom 1,183 1,296 1,343 1,409 – – 160 113
Other 840 890 745 791 – – -95 -99
Total 21,964 23,213 21,350 20,880 -406 -393 -1,020 -2,726
Explanations regarding plan assets
The target asset allocation of plan assets has been defined by using asset liability studies and is
reviewed regularly. Accordingly, plan assets are aligned with the long-term development of the
obligations, taking into consideration the risks associated with the specific asset classes and the
regulations relating to the investment of plan assets. The existing portfolio structure is based on the
target asset allocation. In addition, current market assessments are taken into consideration. In order to
mitigate risks and maximize returns, a widely spread global portfolio of individual assets is held.
Liability-driven investment (LDI) techniques, such as hedging the risk of changes in interest rates and
inflation, are used in some pension plans, especially in U.K. and U.S. plans, and since 2023, in Germany
as well.
Structure of plan assets
Million € 2024 2023
Equities 3,898 3,927
Debt instruments 9,348 9,249
of which for government debtors 3,463 3,875
for other debtors 5,885 5,373
Real estate 1,654 1,647
Alternative investments 5,912 5,712
Cash and cash equivalents 538 345
Total 21,350 20,880
In addition to promissory notes and mortgage bonds, the debt instruments asset class also includes
corporate and government bonds. Government bonds are primarily bonds from countries with very high
credit ratings, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Switzerland.
Government bonds from emerging markets are also held to a limited extent. Corporate bonds are
primarily bonds from borrowers with good credit ratings, although a deliberate limited amount of high-
yield bonds is also held. As part of the ongoing monitoring of default risks, which is based on a
predetermined risk budget and observation of the development of the issuers' creditworthiness, the
investment of pension assets may be adjusted if the market assessment changes. Alternative
investments primarily include plants in private and infrastructure equity, absolute return funds and
secured corporate loans.
The majority of equities (91.6% / previous year: 99.9%) and debt instruments for government debtors
(95.4% / previous year: 99.3%) are priced on active markets. Overall, in 2024 price quotations on an
active market existed for 77.6% (previous year: 89.8%) of debt instruments for other debtors. In the
alternative investments and real estate category, there was only a fungible market price for 2.5%
(previous year: 2.7%) and 5.2% (previous year: 5.3%) of securities, respectively, as of
BASF Report 2024 Notes 407
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
December 31, 2024. The capital market compensates for this lack of fungibility with yield premiums
depending on maturity.
Plan assets as of the balance sheet date included securities issued by BASF Group companies valued at
€12 million in 2024. Securities issued by BASF Group companies were not included to any significant
extent in 2023. The market value of the properties of legally independent pension funds rented to BASF
Group companies amounted to €112 million on December 31, 2024, and €115 million on
December 31, 2023.
The retrospective initial fund loan BASF SE temporarily provided to BASF Pensionskasse VVaG in 2021
had a nominal value of €320 million as of the balance sheet date. Of this, €80 million had been utilized as
of December 31, 2024.
The funding of the plans was as follows:
Current funding situation of the pension plans as of December 31
Million € 2024 2023
Defined Defined
benefit Plan benefit Plan
obligation assets obligation assets
Unfunded pension plans 1,931 – 1,954 –
Funded pension plans 20,033 21,350 21,259 20,880
Asset ceiling – -406 – -393
Total 21,964 20,944 23,213 20,487
Asset ceiling
As in the previous year, an asset ceiling was applied to pension plans in Switzerland in 2024 in
accordance with IAS 19.64 in the amount of €406 million as of December 31, 2024, and €393 million as
of December 31, 2023.
Development of asset ceiling
Million € 2024 2023
Limit on plan assets on January 1 393 431
Interest expense on unrecognized portion of plan assets 5 10
Change in limit excluding interest cost (remeasurement) 11 -69
Currency translation -3 21
Limit on plan assets on December 31 406 393
Defined contribution plans and insolvency protection
Contributions to defined contribution plans recorded in the income from operations amounted to
€285 million in 2024 and €300 million in 2023. In addition, contributions to insolvency protection
schemes amounted to €24 million in 2024 and €30 million in 2023.
Government pension plans
Contributions to government pension plans were €627 million in 2024 and €612 million in 2023.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 408
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
22 Other provisions
Accounting policies
Other provisions are recognized when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event and when
there is a probable outflow of resources whose amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are
recognized at the probable settlement value.
The probable amount required to settle noncurrent provisions is discounted if the effect of discounting is
material. In this case, the provision is recognized at present value. Financing costs related to unwinding
the discount of provisions in subsequent periods are shown in other financial result.
Provisions for restoration obligations include expected costs for dismantling existing plants and
buildings. If BASF is the only responsible party that can be identified, the provision covers the entire
expected obligation. At sites operated together with one or more partners, the provision generally covers
only BASF’s share of the expected obligation. The amount of the provision is determined based on the
available technical information on the site, the technology used, legal regulations, and official
requirements. The calculation accounts for expected significant changes in obligations.
Provisions for environmental protection and remediation costs are recognized for expected costs for
rehabilitating contaminated sites, recultivating landfills, removal of environmental contamination at
existing production or storage sites, and for similar measures as well as for obligations to surrender
emission certificates.
Provisions for employee obligations primarily consist of variable compensation including associated
social security contributions, as well as obligations for granting long-service bonuses. The latter are
predominantly calculated based on actuarial principles.
Provisions for obligations from sales and purchase contracts largely comprise obligations arising from
rebates granted and other price discounts in the Agricultural Solutions segment, warranties and product
liabilities, sales commissions and losses from onerous contracts.
Provisions for restructuring measures include severance payments to departing employees or similar
personnel expenses as well as expected costs for site closures, including costs for demolition and similar
measures. Provisions are recognized for these expenses when the relevant measures have been planned
and announced by management.
Provisions for litigation, damage claims and similar obligations contain anticipated expenses from
lawsuits in which BASF is the defendant party, as well as obligations under damage claims against BASF
and fines. In order to determine the amount of the provisions, the company takes into consideration the
facts related to each case, the size of the claim, compensation awarded in similar cases and
independent expert advice as well as assumptions regarding the probability of a successful claim and
the range of possible claims. Actual costs can deviate from these estimates (for more information, see
Note 23 on page 411 onward).
Noncurrent provisions were discounted at a rate between 2.2% and 3.5% (previous year: between 2.2%
and 3.5%).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 409
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Explanation of other provisions
Other provisions
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Of which Of which
current current
Restoration obligations 241 – 125 3
Environmental protection and remediation costs 1,115 262 948 135
Employee obligations 1,332 926 1,299 844
Obligations from sales and purchase contracts 1,833 1,688 1,793 1,731
Restructuring measures 120 62 92 83
Litigation, damage claims and similar obligations 155 63 173 77
Other 405 319 467 342
Total 5,202 3,320 4,898 3,214
The increase in provisions for restoration obligations was mainly due to higher accruals for the
restoration of the Frankfurt and Knapsack sites in Germany.
The increase in provisions for environmental protection measures and remediation resulted mainly
from higher accruals for emission rights and landfills.
The increase in provisions for restructuring measures was mainly attributable to higher accruals for
severance payments.
Other includes interest on noncurrent tax provisions.
The following table shows the development of other provisions by category. Other changes include
changes in the scope of consolidation, acquisitions, divestitures, currency effects and the reclassification
of obligations to liabilities when the amount and timing of these obligations become known. The climate
risks presented in Note 1.4 (from page 341 onward) did not lead to additional provisions in either year.
Development of other provisions in 2024
Unwinding Other
Million € Jan. 1, 2024 Additions of discount Utilization Releases changes Dec. 31, 2024
Restoration obligations 125 116 2 -3 -1 3 241
Environmental
protection and
remediation costs 948 238 11 -99 -10 27 1,115
Employee obligations 1,299 907 2 -817 -56 -3 1,332
Obligations from sales
and purchase contracts 1,793 1,558 − -1,412 -161 54 1,833
Restructuring measures 92 86 − -51 -8 – 120
Litigation, damage
claims and similar
obligations 173 37 1 -42 -8 -6 155
Other 467 193 2 -185 -76 4 405
Total 4,898 3,136 18 -2,608 -320 80 5,202
BASF Report 2024 Notes 410
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
23 Risks from litigation and claims
ESRS 2 SBM-3
Since 2019, numerous lawsuits filed by individuals claiming personal injury or by municipalities or states
claiming property or natural resource damages for alleged contamination of public and private water
supplies through per-fluorinated and polyfluorinated alkyl compounds (PFAS) have been pending against
members of BASF Group, primarily BASF Corporation (a U.S. subsidiary of BASF) in the United States. In
2024, several lawsuits were also filed by individuals in Canada, one action was filed on behalf of a First
Nation, and one by the Province of British Columbia against BASF Canada Inc. (a Canadian subsidiary of
BASF), BASF Corporation and BASF SE. The lawsuits generally allege PFAS contamination and name as
defendants manufacturers/distributors of aqueous film-forming foam (AFFF) and their suppliers. BASF is
named as a defendant as the legal successor to Ciba, which until 2003 produced and distributed
fluorochemical products (trade name Lodyne) used in AFFF.
Overall, members of the BASF Group are defendants in over 4,500 of such lawsuits as of January 2025
and are defending against these claims. At this time, BASF cannot predict the outcome of resolving
these matters or what potential actions may be taken by regulatory agencies. An adverse outcome could
be material to BASF's financial results.
On May 20, 2024, BASF Corporation agreed to a class settlement with U.S. public water systems that
detected PFAS in their drinking water sources, which they allege to be associated with the use of AFFF
products. The BASF Corporation agreed to contribute €305 million ($316.5 million) in total (€301 million
($312.5 million) to resolve the PFAS claims, plus €4 million ($4 million) toward settlement administration
costs). The BASF Corporation paid the administration costs in July 2024, and the amount to resolve the
PFAS claims in early March 2025. BASF Corporation has a significant amount of insurance through a
number of insurers and is pursuing recovery of its settlement payment under those policies. The
settlement releases these claims against BASF Corporation, Ciba and other related corporate entities. It
does not constitute an admission of liability or wrongdoing by BASF Corporation or Ciba. BASF and its
relevant affiliates also intend to continue to defend itself in all remaining AFFF matters. Furthermore,
BASF SE and its affiliated companies are defendants in or parties to a variety of legal or regulatory
proceedings on a recurring basis. To our current knowledge, none of these proceedings will have a
material effect on the economic situation of BASF.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 411
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
24 Other financial obligations
The figures listed below are stated at nominal value:
Other financial obligations
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Bills of exchange 1 1
Guarantees 20 30
Warranties 32 30
Collateral granted on behalf of third-party liabilities 0 –
Initiated investment projects 7,027 11,064
of which purchase commitments 2,158 4,474
for the purchase of intangible assets 7 9
Payment and loan commitments and other financial obligations 314 301
The table does not include financial guarantees (for more information on financial guarantees, see
Note 25 from page 412 onward).
Obligations arising from purchase contracts
Obligations from purchase contracts resulted primarily from long-term purchase obligations for raw
materials as well as supply agreements for energy from renewable sources (for more information on long-
term energy supply agreements, see “Climate change” in the Combined Management’s Report from
page 178 onward).
Obligations arising from purchase contracts
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Following year 1 7,169 7,726
Following year 2 3,341 4,088
Following year 3 2,798 3,195
Following year 4 2,433 3,084
Following year 5 2,322 1,968
Following year 6 and maturities beyond this year 11,228 9,621
Total 29,292 29,681
25 Supplementary information on financial instruments
25.1 Accounting policies
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet when the BASF
Group becomes a party to a financial instrument. Financial assets are derecognized when BASF no
longer has a contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset or when the financial asset is
transferred together with all material risks and rewards of ownership or the significant risks and rewards
are neither transferred nor retained and BASF does not have control of the financial asset after it has
been transferred. For example, receivables are derecognized when they are definitively found to be
uncollectible such as in the event of concluded insolvency proceedings. Financial liabilities are
derecognized when the contractual obligations expire, are discharged or cancelled. Regular-way
purchases and sales of financial instruments are accounted for using the settlement date; in precious
metal trading, the trade date is used.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 412
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. If
pricing on an active market is available, for example in the form of exchange prices, these are used as
the basis for the measurement. Otherwise, the measurement is based on either internal measurement
models using current market parameters or external measurements, for example, from banks. These
internal measurements rely predominantly on the net present value method and option pricing models.
These models incorporate, for example, expected future cash flows as well as discount factors adjusted
for term and, potentially, risk. Depending on the availability of market parameters, BASF assigns financial
instruments’ market values one of the three levels of the fair value hierarchy pursuant to IFRS 13.
Reassignment to a different level during a fiscal year is only carried out if the availability of observable
market parameters for identical or similar items changes.
If the level 3 fair values calculated at the time of initial recognition using a valuation model, differ from the
transaction price, the differences are deferred and reported in the balance sheet together with the
positive or negative fair value of the respective financial instrument according to the valuation model. The
differences are generally amortized over the terms of the contracts using the straight-line method.
The classification and measurement of financial assets is based on the one hand on the cash flow
condition (the “solely payments of principal and interest” criterion), that is, the contractual cash flow
characteristics of an individual financial asset. On the other hand, it also depends on the business model
used for managing financial asset portfolios. Based on these two criteria, BASF uses the following
measurement categories for financial assets:
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss include all financial assets whose cash
flows are not solely payments of principal and interest in accordance with the cash flow condition
established in IFRS 9. Furthermore, this measurement category includes financial assets whose business
model does not consist of collecting at least a portion of the contractually agreed cash flows expected
over the term by holding them. At BASF, derivatives, for example, are allocated to this measurement
category. In general, BASF does not exercise the fair value option in IFRS 9, which permits the allocation
of financial instruments not to be measured at fair value through profit or loss on the basis of the cash
flow condition or the business model criterion to the above category under certain circumstances. These
instruments are initially measured at fair value, which typically equals the transaction price.
In 2024, BASF concluded a climate protection agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany to fund
a heat pump at the Ludwigshafen site. This agreement is a contract for difference and is measured as a
derivative at fair value. The effects on earnings from measurement of the contract are initially deferred.
When the heat pump goes into operation, the deferred subsidy is recognized in profit or loss in line with
the utilized amount of the funding.
Financial assets measured at amortized cost include all assets with contractual terms that give rise to
cash flows on specific dates, provided these cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest on
the principal amount outstanding in accordance with the cash flow condition in IFRS 9, to the extent that
the asset is held with the intention of collecting the expected contractual cash flows over its term. At
BASF, this measurement category includes trade accounts receivable, as well as receivables reported
under other receivables and miscellaneous assets and certain securities.
Initial measurement of these assets is generally at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The fair value usually corresponds to the transaction price at the time of acquisition or, in the case of
trade accounts receivable, to the transaction price pursuant to IFRS 15. Subsequent measurement
effects are recognized in income using the effective interest method.
Impairments are recognized for expected credit losses at both initial and subsequent measurement, even
before the occurrence of any default event. Counterparties are generally considered to default when they
BASF Report 2024 Notes 413
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
become insolvent, become a debtor in a creditor protection program or are in a finance-related legal
dispute with BASF, or more than half of BASF’s receivables portfolio with them is more than 90 days
overdue. In these cases, individual impairments are recognized for the financial assets measured at
amortized cost that are then considered to be credit impaired.
The extent of expected credit losses is determined based on the credit risk of a financial asset, as well as
any changes to this credit risk: If the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition, expected credit losses are generally recognized over the lifetime of the asset. If, however,
the credit risk has not increased significantly in this period, impairments are generally only recognized as
12-month expected credit losses. By contrast, under the simplified approach for determining expected
credit losses permitted by IFRS 9, impairments for receivables such as lease receivables and trade
accounts receivable always cover the lifetime expected credit losses of the receivable concerned.
At BASF, the credit risk of a financial asset is assessed using both internal information and external rating
information on the respective counterparty. A significant increase in the counterparty’s credit risk is
assumed if its rating is lowered by a certain number of notches. It is generally assumed that the credit
risk for a counterparty with a high credit rating will not have increased significantly.
Regional and, in certain circumstances, industry-specific factors and expectations are taken into account
when assessing the extent of impairment as part of the calculation of expected credit losses and
individual impairments. In addition, BASF uses internal and external ratings and the assessments of debt
collection agencies and credit insurers, when available. Individual impairments are also based on
experience relating to customer solvency and customer-specific risks. Bank guarantees and letters of
credit are used to an immaterial extent. Expected credit losses and individual impairments are only
calculated for receivables to the extent they are not covered by collateral.
A decrease in impairment due, for example, to a reduction in the credit risk of a counterparty or an
objective event occurring after the impairment is recorded in profit or loss. Reversals of impairments may
not exceed amortized cost less any expected future credit losses.
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income include all assets with
contractual terms that give rise to cash flows on specified dates that are solely payments of principal and
interest on the principal amount outstanding, in accordance with the cash flow condition in IFRS 9.
Furthermore, the assets in this measurement category may not just be held with the intention of
collecting the expected contractual cash flows over their term, but also generating cash flows from their
sale. At BASF, trade accounts receivable that are available for sale as part of a factoring agreement are
allocated to this category. Additionally, certain securities that are reported as other financial assets or
marketable securities are allocated to this category. BASF does not exercise the option to subsequently
measure equity instruments through other comprehensive income. Assets measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income are initially measured at fair value including directly attributable transaction
costs. At initial recognition, the fair value usually corresponds to the transaction price of the receivables
and securities allocated to this category . Subsequent measurement is likewise at fair value. Changes in
the fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income and reclassified to the statement of income
when the asset is disposed of. Impairments on financial assets measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income are calculated in the same way as impairments on financial assets measured at
amortized cost and recognized in profit or loss.
The following measurement categories are used for financial liabilities:
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost generally include all financial liabilities, provided these
do not represent derivatives. At initial recognition, they are generally measured at fair value, taking into
account directly attributable transaction costs. At initial recognition, the fair value usually corresponds to
the value of the consideration received. Subsequent measurement is recognized in profit or loss at
BASF Report 2024 Notes 414
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
amortized cost using the effective interest method. At BASF, for example, bonds and liabilities to banks
reported under financial indebtedness are measured at amortized cost.
BASF has concluded supplier finance arrangements under which suppliers are entitled to receive invoice
amounts prior to the original due date. Payment to the supplier is made by one of several participating
banks with a discount. BASF pays the full invoice amount to the banks on the original due date. As the
original payment obligations remain in place and there is no change in the main payment terms, the
obligations continue to be reported under trade accounts payable.
Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss contain derivative financial liabilities.
At initial recognition, these are measured at fair value, which generally equates to the transaction price.
Fair value is also applied as a measurement basis for these liabilities in subsequent measurement. The
option to subsequently measure non-derivative financial liabilities at fair value is not exercised. Derivative
financial instruments can be embedded within other contracts, creating a hybrid financial instrument. If
IFRS policies require separation, the embedded derivative is accounted for separately from its host
contract and measured at fair value. If IFRS 9 does not provide for separation, the hybrid instrument is
accounted for at fair value in its entirety.
Financial guarantees of the BASF Group are contracts that require compensation payments to be made
to the guarantee holder if a debtor fails to make payment when due under the terms of a transaction
entered into with the holder of the guarantee. Financial guarantees issued by BASF are measured at fair
value upon initial recognition. In subsequent periods, these financial guarantees are carried at the higher
of amortized cost or the expected credit losses as of the reporting date.
In cash flow hedges, future cash flows and the related income and expenses are hedged against the
risk of changes in value. To this end, future underlying transactions and the corresponding hedging
instruments are designated in a cash flow hedge accounting relationship for accounting purposes. The
effective portion of the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, which often meets the definition of
a derivative, and the cost of hedging are recognized directly in equity under other comprehensive income
over the term of the hedge, taking deferred taxes into account. The ineffective portion is recognized
immediately in the income statement. In the case of future transactions that lead to recognition of a
nonfinancial asset or a nonfinancial liability, the cumulative fair value changes of the hedge in equity are
generally charged against the cost of the hedged item on its initial recognition. For hedges based on
financial assets, financial liabilities or future transactions, cumulative fair value changes of the hedges are
transferred from equity to the income statement in the reporting period in which the hedged item is
recognized in the income statement. The maturity of the hedging instrument is aligned with the effective
date of the future transaction.
When fair value hedge accounting is used, the asset or liability recognized is hedged against the risk of
a change in fair value. The hedging instruments used, which often take the form of a derivative, are
measured at fair value and changes in fair value are recognized in the statement of income. The carrying
amounts of the assets or liabilities designated as the underlying transaction are also measured at fair
value through the statement of income.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 415
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
25.2 Financial risks
Market risks
Foreign currency risks: Changes in exchange rates could lead to losses in the value of financial
instruments and adverse changes in future cash flows from planned transactions. Foreign currency risks
from financial instruments result from the translation at the closing rate of financial receivables, loans,
securities, cash and financial liabilities into the functional currency of the respective Group company.
Foreign currency contracts in various currencies are used to hedge foreign exchange risks from non-
derivative financial instruments and planned transactions.
The foreign currency risk exposure corresponds to the net amount of the nominal volume of the primary
and the derivative financial instruments that are exposed to currency risks. Long and short positions in
the same currency are offset against each other. Primary and derivative financial instruments are
generally taken into account in currency risk management. Planned purchasing and sales transactions
are usually no longer determined and included in the currency exposure. In the previous year, these
transactions were included in the calculation of currency exposure.
As of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, there was no significant currency exposure as all
material currency risks were hedged. Appreciation or depreciation of the respective functional currency
would not have had a significant impact on BASF's income before income taxes or equity.
Interest rate risks: Interest rate risks arise from changes in prevailing market interest rates, which can
lead to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate instruments and in interest payments for variable-rate
instruments. Interest rate swaps and combined interest rate and currency derivatives are used in
individual cases to hedge these risks. The derivatives are presented in Note 25.5 (see from page 426
onward). Interest rate risks are relevant to BASF’s financing activities but are not of material significance
to BASF’s operating activities.
The variable interest risk exposure, which also includes fixed rate bonds maturing in the following year,
amounted to -€3,377 million as of December 31, 2024 (previous year: -€427 million). An increase in all
relevant interest rates by one half of a percentage point would have lowered income before income taxes
by €10 million as of December 31, 2024. An increase in all relevant interest rates by one percentage point
would have lowered income before income taxes by €19 million as of the same date. An increase in all
relevant interest rates by one half of a percentage point would have raised income before income taxes
by €2 million as of December 31, 2023 (an increase of one percentage point would have raised income
before income taxes by €3 million). Because no interest derivatives were designated in hedge accounting
relationships as of December 31, 2024, a change in interest rates would not have had an effect on
shareholders’ equity. There were also no interest derivatives designated in hedge accounting
relationships as of December 31, 2023.
Carrying amounts of primary interest-bearing financial instruments
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Fixed Variable Fixed Variable
interest rate interest rate interest rate interest rate
Loans 117 68 158 108
Securities 399 44 367 19
Financial indebtedness 16,888 4,873a 17,116 2,152a
a Including fixed-interest bonds due in the following year
BASF Report 2024 Notes 416
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Nominal and fair values of combined interest rate and currency swaps
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Nominal Fair Nominal Fair
value value value value
Combined interest rate and currency swaps 3,960 248 3,960 157
of which fixed rate 3,960 248 3,960 157
Commodity price risks: Some of BASF’s divisions are exposed to strong fluctuations in raw materials
prices. These result primarily from raw materials (for example, naphtha, benzene, natural gas, LPG
condensate) as well as from metals. BASF takes the following measures to reduce commodity price
risks:
– BASF uses derivatives to hedge the risks of raw materials prices. These are primarily derivatives on
natural gas, crude oil, oil products.
– The Catalysts division enters into both short-term and long-term purchase contracts with precious and
battery metal producers. It also buys metals on spot markets from various business partners. The
price risk from metals purchased to be sold on to third parties, or for use in the production of catalysts
and battery materials, is hedged using derivative instruments. This is mainly performed using forward
contracts, which are settled by either entering into offsetting contracts or by delivering the metal.
– In the Agricultural Solutions division, the sales prices of products are sometimes pegged to the price
of certain agricultural commodities. To hedge the resulting risks, derivatives on agricultural
commodities are concluded.
In addition, BASF holds limited unhedged precious metal and oil product positions, which can also
include derivatives, for trading on its own account. The value of these positions is exposed to market
price volatility and is subject to constant monitoring.
By holding commodity derivatives, precious metal trading positions and unhedged oil product positions,
BASF is exposed to price risks. The valuation of commodity derivatives and precious metal trading
positions at fair value as well as unhedged oil product positions means that adverse changes in market
prices could negatively affect the earnings and equity of BASF.
BASF holds several physical power purchase agreements (PPAs) with terms of up to 25 years. Under the
physical PPAs, BASF procures electricity and associated green electricity certificates, known as
guarantees of origin (GoOs). If BASF holds PPAs for the purpose of full consumption of the electricity,
these fall under the own use exemption and are therefore not recognized as derivatives. Additionally,
BASF also holds physical PPAs in the USA and Asia; the electricity from these PPAs cannot be
consumed in full due to major deviations between supply profiles and consumption patterns. The
electricity forward agreements embedded in them are not eligible for the own use exemption and are
recognized as derivatives at fair value through profit or loss. In contrast to electricity, green electricity
certificates obtained from physical PPAs recognized as derivatives can be stored and consumed at a
later date. Thus, they fall under the own use exemption even if purchased at a fixed price. In the event of
adverse changes in energy market prices, valuation of the electricity forward agreements for physical
PPAs can lead to negative effects on BASF’s earnings.
Furthermore, BASF holds several virtual PPAs in the United States with initial terms of up to 15 years.
The electricity forward agreements embedded in virtual PPAs are recognized separately as derivatives at
fair value through profit or loss. In the event of adverse changes in energy market prices, measurement of
electricity forward agreements at fair value can lead to negative effects on BASF’s earnings.
BASF performs value-at-risk analyses for commodity derivatives and precious metal trading positions.
Value at risk continuously measures the market price risk and quantifies the loss that is not exceeded by
BASF Report 2024 Notes 417
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
a specific confidence level during a defined holding period. BASF bases the value-at-risk calculation on a
confidence interval of 95% and a holding period of one day. BASF applies the variance-covariance
method to calculate value at risk.
BASF uses value at risk in conjunction with other risk management tools. Besides value at risk, BASF
sets volume-based limits as well as exposure and stop-loss limits.
Risk positions from commodity derivatives not eligible for the own use exemptiona
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Exposure Value at Risk Exposure Value at Risk
Crude oil, oil products and natural gas 3 8 129 15
Precious metals 81 1 94 1
Agricultural commodities 116 0 76 0
Electricity and green electricity certificates – – 1 0
a Certain commodity derivatives categorized as level 3 fair value, such as power purchase agreements and the climate protection agreement, are not included in the table
above. Sensitivities for these commodity derivatives are provided in Note 25.4 from page 424 onward. The previous year's figures for electricity and green electricity
certificates were adjusted accordingly.
The exposure corresponds to the net amount of all long and short positions of the respective commodity
category (for more information on financial risks and BASF’s risk management, see the Opportunities and
Risks Report from page 87 onward).
Default and credit risk
Default or credit risks arise due to the fact that customers and debtors may not fulfill their obligations.
BASF regularly analyzes the creditworthiness of the counterparties and grants credit limits on the basis
of this analysis. Due to the global activities and diversified customer structure of the BASF Group, there
is no significant concentration of default risk. The risk of default is mitigated to a limited extent by
collateral, in particular bank guarantees and assets. The carrying amount of all receivables, loans and
interest-bearing securities plus the nominal value of financial obligations stemming from contingent
liabilities not to be recognized represents the maximum default risk for BASF (for more information on
credit risks, see Note 17 from page 391 onward).
In 2024, €37 million was recognized for expected credit losses from financial guarantees issued for the
first time (balance as of December 31, 2024: €37 million). The maximum default amount of the financial
guarantees issued was €182 million. The earliest possible maturity of the financial guarantees was €170
million for 2025 and €12 million for 2026. In the previous year, no expected credit losses were recognized
for financial guarantees issued for reasons of materiality. The maximum default amount in the previous
year was €28 million and the earliest possible maturity was €28 million for 2024.
Liquidity risks
BASF promptly recognizes any risks from cash flow fluctuations as part of liquidity planning. BASF has
ready access to sufficient liquid funds from the ongoing commercial paper program and confirmed lines
of credit from banks.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 418
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
25.3 Maturity analysis
The interest and principal payments as well as other payments for derivative financial instruments are
relevant for the presentation of the maturities of the contractual cash flows from financial liabilities.
Future cash flows are not discounted here.
Derivatives are included using their net cash flows, provided they have negative fair values and therefore
represent a liability. Derivatives with positive fair values are assets and are therefore not taken into
account.
Maturities of contractual cash flows from financial liabilities as of December 31, 2024
Bonds and other Accounts
liabilities to the Liabilities to payable, Derivative Miscellaneous
Million € capital market credit institutions trade liabilities liabilities Total
2025 2,058 1,150 6,901 236 1,188 11,532
2026 1,856 1,361 11 5 305 3,538
2027 2,608 541 11 – 224 3,385
2028 1,872 459 – – 181 2,511
2029 1,160 199 – – 136 1,496
2030 and
thereafter 9,060 3,460 – 82 813 13,415
Total 18,615 7,170 6,923 323 2,847 35,876
Maturities of contractual cash flows from financial liabilities as of December 31, 2023
Bonds and other Accounts
liabilities to the Liabilities to payable, Derivative Miscellaneous
Million € capital market credit institutions trade liabilities liabilities Total
2024 816 1,775 6,738 361 736 10,428
2025 1,935 345 1 95 277 2,654
2026 1,771 1,239 2 4 203 3,220
2027 2,260 437 – 1 163 2,861
2028 1,740 366 – 1 132 2,239
2029 and
thereafter 8,264 1,095 – 95 830 10,283
Total 16,786 5,258 6,741 557 2,341 31,684
BASF Report 2024 Notes 419
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
25.4 Classes and categories of financial instruments
Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments as of December 31, 2024
Total
carrying Valuation
amount category
within in accor-
scope of dance Of which Of which Of which
Carrying application with fair value fair value fair value
Million € amount of IFRS 7 IFRS 9b Fair value level 1c level 2d level 3e
Shareholdingsa 533 533 FVTPL 0 – 0 –
Receivables from finance leases 31 31 n. a. 31 – – –
Accounts receivable, trade 9,665 9,665 AC 9,665 – – –
Accounts receivable, trade 396 396 FVTOCI 396 – 396 –
Accounts receivable, trade 332 332 FVTPL 332 – 332 –
Derivatives – no hedge accounting 647 647 FVTPL 787 5 519 263g
Derivatives – hedge accounting 303 303 n. a. 303 – 303 –
Other receivables and
miscellaneous assetsf 4,552 1,098 AC 1,098 – – –
Other receivables and
miscellaneous assetsf 89 89 FVTPL 89 – 89 –
Securities 36 36 AC 36 – – –
Securities 376 376 FVTOCI 376 294 82 –
Securities 288 288 FVTPL 288 283 4 –
Cash equivalents 75 75 FVTPL 75 75 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 2,838 2,838 AC 2,838 – – –
Total assets 20,162 16,708 16,315 657 1,727 263
Bonds 15,751 15,751 AC 15,300 12,493 2,807 –
Liabilities to credit institutions 6,011 6,011 AC 6,032 – 6,032 –
Liabilities from leases 1,663 1,663 n. a. 1,663 – – –
Accounts payable, trade 6,923 6,923 AC 6,923 – – –
Derivatives – no hedge accounting 325 325 FVTPL 285 3 314 -32h
Derivatives – hedge accounting 1 1 n. a. 1 – 1 –
Other liabilitiesf 3,470 2,277 AC 2,277 – – –
Total liabilities 34,144 32,951 32,482 12,496 9,155 -32
a In general, only significant shareholdings are measured at fair value and shown in the table above under fair value. All insignificant shareholdings are measured at cost
(carrying amount: €533 million). Fair value level 1 is applied to publicly listed shareholdings. Level 2 is applied to shareholdings for which valuation is based on parameters
observable in the market to the greatest extent possible. These may be adjusted to reflect valuation-relevant characteristics of the respective shareholding in the fair value.
b AC: amortized cost; FVTOCI: fair value through other comprehensive income; FVTPL: fair value through profit or loss; a more detailed description of the categories can be
found in Note 25.1 from page 412 onward.
c Fair value was determined based on quoted, unadjusted prices on active markets.
d Fair value was determined based on parameters for which directly or indirectly quoted prices on active markets were available.
e Fair value was determined based on parameters for which there was no observable market data.
f Does not include separately shown derivatives or receivables and liabilities from finance leases. If miscellaneous receivables are valued at fair value through profit or loss,
their valuation is generally based on parameters observable on the market. These are adjusted to reflect valuation-relevant characteristics of the respective assets in the
fair value.
g The carrying amount of the included electricity forward agreements reported in the balance sheet under other receivables and miscellaneous assets is €38 million after
subtracting the differences of €140 million described on page 424.
h The carrying amount of the electricity forward agreements reported in the balance sheet under other liabilities is €8 million after subtracting the differences of €41 million
described on page 424.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 420
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments as of December 31, 2023
Total
carrying Valuation
amount category
within in
scope of accordance Of which Of which Of which
Carrying application with IFRS fair value fair value fair value
Million € amount of IFRS 7 9b Fair value level 1c level 2d level 3e
Shareholdingsa 536 536 FVTPL 0 – 0 –
Receivables from finance leases 33 33 n. a. 33 – – –
Accounts receivable, trade 9,817 9,817 AC 9,817 – – –
Accounts receivable, trade 286 286 FVTOCI 286 – 286 –
Accounts receivable, trade 312 312 FVTPL 312 – 312 –
Derivatives – no hedge accounting 810 810 FVTPL 955 5 752 198g
Derivatives – hedge accounting 242 242 n. a. 242 – 242 –
Other receivables and
miscellaneous assetsf 4,669 1,229 AC 1,229 – – –
Other receivables and
miscellaneous assetsf 89 89 FVTPL 89 – 89 –
Securities 39 39 AC 39 – – –
Securities 325 325 FVTOCI 325 234 91 –
Securities 253 253 FVTPL 253 252 1 –
Cash equivalents 20 20 FVTPL 20 20 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 2,605 2,605 AC 2,605 – – –
Total assets 20,035 16,595 16,204 510 1,773 198
Bonds 14,438 14,438 AC 13,876 12,468 1,407 –
Liabilities to credit institutions 4,830 4,830 AC 4,582 – 4,582 –
Liabilities from leases 1,649 1,649 n. a. 1,649 – – –
Accounts payable, trade 6,741 6,741 AC 6,741 – – –
Derivatives – no hedge accounting 309 309 FVTPL 251 11 288 -48h
Derivatives – hedge accounting 18 18 n. a. 18 – 18 –
Other liabilitiesf 2,694 1,816 AC 1,816 – – –
Total liabilities 30,679 29,801 28,933 12,479 6,295 -48
a In general, only significant shareholdings are measured at fair value. All insignificant shareholdings are measured at cost (carrying amount: €539 million). Fair value level 1
is applied to publicly listed shareholdings. Level 2 is applied to shareholdings for which valuation is based on parameters observable in the market to the greatest extent
possible. These may be adjusted to reflect valuation-relevant characteristics of the respective shareholding in the fair value.
b AC: amortized cost; FVTOCI: fair value through other comprehensive income; FVTPL: fair value through profit or loss; a more detailed description of the categories can be
found in Note 25.1 from page 412 onward.
c Fair value was determined based on quoted, unadjusted prices on active markets.
d Fair value was determined based on parameters for which directly or indirectly quoted prices on active markets were available.
e Fair value was determined based on parameters for which there was no observable market data.
f Does not include separately shown derivatives or receivables and liabilities from finance leases. If miscellaneous receivables are valued at fair value through profit or loss,
their valuation is generally based on parameters observable on the market. These are adjusted to reflect valuation-relevant characteristics of the respective assets in the
fair value.
g The carrying amount of the electricity forward agreements reported in the balance sheet under other receivables and miscellaneous assets is €53 million after subtracting
the differences of €145 million.
h The carrying amount of the electricity forward agreements reported in the balance sheet under other liabilities is €10 million after subtracting the differences of €58 million.
For trade accounts receivable, other receivables and miscellaneous assets, cash and cash equivalents,
as well as trade accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortized cost, the carrying amount
approximates the fair value.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 421
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Financial assets measured at fair value – valuation methods and input factors
Million €
Financial Fair value
instrument level Description Valuation method Key input factors to determine fair value Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Receivables with embedded Discounting of expected future cash Observable commodity price quotations,
Level 2 332 312
commodity derivatives flows yield curves, credit default premiums
Accounts receivable,
trade
Receivables available for sale under a
Level 2 Valuation using nominal values Nominal values 396 286
factoring agreement
Exchange-traded commodity Price quotation on an active market
Level 1 Market price on the balance sheet date 5 5
derivatives for identical assets
Exchange rate quotations, observable yield
OTC currency, interest rate and Discounting of expected future cash curves, commodity price quotations,
Level 2 823 995
commodity derivatives flows, option pricing models currency and commodity price volatility,
credit default premiums
Derivatives with Electricity price quotations, long-term
positive fair values Discounting of expected future cash electricity price forecasts,a expected
Level 3 Electricity forward agreements 178b 198c
flows electricity volumes,a estimated startup
date,a yield curves, credit default premiums
Emission, natural gas and electricity price
quotations, long-term emission,a natural
Discounting of expected future cash
Level 3 Climate protection agreement gasa and electricity price forecasts,a 84 –
flows
estimated production volumes,a yield
curves.
Performance-based interest-bearing Discounting of expected future cash Expected cash flows from the investment
Level 2 80 80
Other receivables and loan to BASF Pensionskasse flows portfolio, discount factors
miscellaneous assets
Surrender values for insurance Surrender values according to
Level 2 Surrender values on the balance sheet date 9 9
policies contractual agreement
Price quotation on an active market
Level 1 Publicly traded fund shares Market price on the balance sheet date 260 234
for identical assets
Price quotation on an active market
Level 1 Publicly traded bonds Market price on the balance sheet date 317 251
for identical assets
Issuer pricing based on recognized
Securities Level 2 Bonds not publicly traded valuation methods Yield curves, credit default premiums 82 91
Consideration of the fair value of the Market price on the balance sheet date,
Level 2 Fund shares not publicly traded equity and debt instruments in which yield curves, credit default premiums, net 4 1
funds are invested asset value of fund investments
Cash and cash Price quotation on an active market
Level 1 Publicly traded money market funds Market price on the balance sheet date 75 20
equivalents for identical assets
Exchange-traded commodity Price quotation on an active market
Level 1 Market price on the balance sheet date 3 10
derivatives for identical liabilities
Exchange rate quotations, observable yield
Derivatives with OTC currency, interest rate and Discounting of expected future cash curves, commodity price quotations,
Level 2 315 306
negative fair values commodity derivatives flows, option pricing models currency and commodity price volatility,
credit default premiums
Electricity price quotations, long-term
Discounting of expected future cash electricity price forecasts,a expected
Level 3 Electricity forward agreements -32d -48e
flows electricity volumes,a estimated startup
date,a yield curves, credit default premiums
a Unobservable level 3 input factors
b The carrying amount of the electricity forward agreements reported in the balance sheet under other receivables and miscellaneous assets is €38 million after subtracting
the differences of €140 million described on page 424.
c The carrying amount of the electricity forward agreements reported in the balance sheet under other receivables and miscellaneous assets is €53 million after subtracting
the differences of €145 million described on page 424.
d The carrying amount of the electricity forward agreements reported in the balance sheet under other liabilities is €8 million after subtracting the differences of €41 million
described on page 424.
e The carrying amount of the contract for difference for electricity prices reported in the balance sheet under other liabilities is €10 million after subtracting the differences of
€58 million described on page 424.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 422
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The electricity forward agreements presented in the previous table are derivatives embedded in virtual
and physical PPAs that are not eligible for the own use exemption. A change in the key valuation
parameters would have affected the level 3 fair values of the fair value hierarchy as follows:
Sensitivities for level 3 fair values as of December 31, 2024
Change in expected
Million € Change in expected prices production volumes Change in yield curves
+10% -10 % +10% -10 % +1 % -1 %
Electricity forward
agreements 76 -76 22 -22 -30 36
Climate protection
agreement -6 6 8 -8 -6 7
Sensitivities for level 3 fair values as of December 31, 2023
Change in expected
Million € Change in expected prices production volumes Change in yield curves
+10% -10 % +10% -10 % +1 % -1 %
Electricity forward
agreements 91 -91 29 -29 -35 42
At initial recognition, the fair values of the electricity forward agreements, which were calculated using a
valuation model, were higher than the respective transaction price. Development of the differences is
presented in the table below.
Development of differences yet to be amortized of electricity forward agreements
Million € 2024 2023
Differences yet to be amortized through profit or loss as of January 1 204 70
Additions in the reporting period – 147
Amounts recognized in profit or loss in the current reporting period -31 -6
Currency translation 8 -7
Differences yet to be amortized through profit or loss as of December 31 181 204
Development of assets and liabilities measured at level 3 fair value
Million € Electricity forward agreements
2024 2023
Carrying amounts as of January 1a 246 61
Purchases – 147
Settlements -1 –
Gains and losses recognized in other operating result -44 47
of which unrealized gains and losses attributable to assets and liabilities held at the end of the
reporting period -44 47
Currency translation 10 -8
Other – –
Carrying amounts as of December 31a 211 246
a Carrying amounts before subtracting differences presented in the table “Development of differences yet to be amortized of electricity forward agreements”
The changes in carrying amounts were recognized in the income statement as other operating income or
other operating expenses.
No reclassifications arose between fair value levels 1, 2 and 3 for financial assets or liabilities recognized
at fair value in the reporting period.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 423
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2024
Offset amounts Potential netting volume
Due to
global netting Relating to Potential net
Million € Gross amount Amount offset Net amount agreements financial collateral amount
Derivatives with
positive fair
values 601 -27 573 -131 -240 202
Derivatives with
negative fair
values 294 -27 267 -131 -23 113
Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2023
Offset amounts Potential netting volume
Due to
global netting Relating to Potential net
Million € Gross amount Amount offset Net amount agreements financial collateral amount
Derivatives with
positive fair
values 482 -22 460 -114 -161 185
Derivatives with
negative fair
values 195 -22 173 -114 -13 47
The table “Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities” shows the extent to which assets and liabilities
were offset in the balance sheet, as well as potential effects from the offsetting of derivatives subject to a
legally enforceable global netting agreement (primarily in the form of an ISDA agreement) or similar
agreement. For positive fair values of combined interest rate and currency swaps, the respective
counterparties provided cash collaterals in an amount comparable to the outstanding fair values.
Deviations from the derivatives with positive fair values and derivatives with negative fair values reported
in other receivables and other liabilities at the end of 2024 and 2023 arose from derivatives not subject to
any netting agreements. These are not included in the table above.
In addition to the offsetting of derivatives presented in the table above, trade accounts receivable in 2024
were offset against trade accounts payable and advance payments received on orders, which were
included in current other liabilities, provided specific netting agreements with customers existed. As a
result, trade accounts receivable were reduced by €1,066 million. The reduction in trade accounts
payable was €57 million and the reduction in advance payments received on orders was €1,009 million.
Accordingly, the net amount for trade accounts receivable was €10,393 million (gross amount before
offsetting: €11,459 million). The resulting net amount for trade accounts payable was €6,923 million
(gross amount before offsetting: €6,980 million). The net amount for advance payments received on
orders was €727 million (gross amount before offsetting: €1,736 million). In 2023, trade accounts
receivable were also offset against trade accounts payable and the advance payments received on
orders included in current other liabilities. This reduced trade accounts receivable by €1,029 million. The
reduction in trade accounts payable was €72 million and the reduction in advance payments received on
orders was €957 million. Accordingly, the net amount for trade accounts receivable was €10,414 million
(gross amount before offsetting: €11,443 million). The resulting net amount for trade accounts payable
was €6,741 million (gross amount before offsetting: €6,813 million). The net amount for advance
payments received on orders was €779 million (gross amount before offsetting: €1,736 million).
The net gains and losses from financial instruments shown in the following table comprise the results of
valuations, the amortization of discounts, the recognition and reversal of impairments, results from the
translation of foreign currencies as well as interest, dividends and all other effects on the earnings
BASF Report 2024 Notes 424
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
resulting from financial instruments. The line item financial instruments measured at fair value through
profit or loss contains only gains and losses from instruments that are not designated as hedging
instruments in a hedging relationship in accordance with IFRS 9 (gains and losses from the valuation of
securities recognized in equity are shown in development of income and expense recognized in equity
attributable to shareholders of BASF SE on page 330. For more information, see the statement of
changes in equity on page 334).
Net gains and losses from financial instruments
Million € 2024 2023
Financial assets measured at amortized cost 602 -648
of which interest result 145 127
Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss 224 111
of which interest result 66 46
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 11 9
of which interest result 13 9
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost -896 181
of which interest result -545 -624
25.5 Derivative financial instruments and hedging relationships
The use of derivative financial instruments
BASF is exposed to foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price risks during the normal course of
business. These risks are hedged using derivative instruments as necessary in accordance with a
centrally determined strategy. Hedging is employed for existing underlying transactions from the product
business, cash investments and financing as well as for planned sales, raw materials purchases and
capital measures. Furthermore, hedging may also be used for cash flows from acquisitions and
divestitures. The risks from the hedged items and the derivatives are continually monitored. Where
derivatives have a positive market value, BASF is exposed to credit risks from derivative transactions in
the event of nonperformance of the other party. To minimize the default risk on derivatives with positive
market values, transactions are exclusively conducted with creditworthy banks and partners and are
subject to predefined credit limits.
To ensure efficient risk management, risk positions are centralized at BASF SE and certain Group
companies. The contracting and execution of derivative financial instruments for hedging purposes are
conducted according to internal guidelines and subject to strict control mechanisms.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 425
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Fair value of derivative instruments
Million € Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Foreign currency forward contracts 53 38
Foreign currency options 0 5
Foreign currency derivatives 53 43
of which designated hedging instruments as defined by IFRS 9 (hedge accounting) 0 7
Combined interest rate and currency swaps 247 157
of which designated hedging instruments as defined by IFRS 9 (hedge accounting) 301 228
Interest derivatives 247 157
Commodity derivativesa 337 525
of which designated hedging instruments as defined by IFRS 9 (hedge accounting) 1 -10
Call and put options on equity instruments -13 –
Derivative financial instruments 624 725
a Market values after deduction of the differences shown in the table “Development of differences yet to be amortized of electricity forward agreements”
Hedge accounting
BASF is exposed to commodity price risks in the context of procuring naphtha. Some of the planned
purchases of naphtha are hedged using options on oil and oil products. The main contractual elements
of these items are aligned with the characteristics of the hedged item. Cash flow hedge accounting was
employed for a portion of these hedging relationships in 2024 and 2023. As of December 31, 2024, no
options were designated as hedging instruments. The average exercise price of the designated options
was $684.51 per metric ton in the previous year.
Cash flow hedge accounting continued to be employed to a minor extent for procuring natural gas,
which is likewise exposed to commodity price risks. Commodity price-based options as well as swaps
serve as hedging instruments, for which contract terms are defined to reflect the risks of the hedged
item. No options were designated as hedging instruments as of December 31, 2024. The average
hedged exercise price of the designated swaps was €43.86 per MWh. As of December 31, 2023, the
average exercise price of the designated options was €72.00 per MWh or $4.02 per mmBtu and
€48.31 per MWh for the designated swaps. Cash flows from not yet realized hedging and underlying
transactions are generally recognized in profit or loss in 2025.
The change in the options’ time value is recognized separately in equity as costs of transaction-related
hedging and, in the year during which the hedged items mature, it is initially derecognized against the
carrying amount of the procured assets and recognized in profit or loss when the assets are consumed.
In 2024, a decrease in time value of €16 million was recognized as a reduction in equity, and €31 million
was initially derecognized against the carrying amount of the inventories procured and then recognized
upon consumption in profit or loss. In 2023, a decrease in time value of €63 million was recognized as a
reduction in equity, and €64 million was derecognized against the carrying amount of the acquired
assets.
Due to planned sales in U.S. dollars, BASF is exposed to foreign currency risks, which were partially
hedged with currency options and designated in a cash flow hedge accounting relationship. The hedged
transaction – the designated share of expected sales in U.S. dollars – was calculated based on internal
thresholds. The exposure from planned sales is no longer determined. In the previous year, the planned
exposure was determined. Therefore, no hedging relationships existed for planned sales as of
December 31, 2024. The average hedged rate was $1.0863 per euro as of the same date of the previous
year. The decrease in the options’ time value component arising in the amount of €9 million in 2024 was
recognized separately in equity as the cost of hedging and resulted in a reduction in equity. Due to the
maturity of hedged items, accumulated changes in the options’ time values were reclassified as a
reduction in earnings in the amount of €11 million. In the previous year, €9 million was recognized as a
BASF Report 2024 Notes 426
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
change in the options’ time value component, thereby reducing equity; and €12 million was reclassified
as a reduction in earnings.
BASF SE’s fixed-rate U.S. private placement of $1.25 billion, issued in 2013, was converted to euros
using combined interest rate and currency swaps, as the private placement exposes BASF to a
combined interest rate and currency risk. BASF is also exposed to a combined interest rate and currency
risk associated with the issue of several tranches of a fixed-interest U.S. private placement in 2024. The
resulting currency risks were hedged with combined interest rate and currency swaps in 2023. These
hedges were designated as cash flow hedges. No ineffectiveness was recognized in 2024 or 2023. The
hedged interest rate was 3.66% and the hedged foreign exchange rate was $1.2052 per euro in both
years. For U.S. private placements hedged in 2023, changes in value in the forward component totaling
€48 million were recognized separately in equity as hedging costs in 2024, leading to a decrease in
equity (previous year: €14 million increase in equity).
Furthermore, BASF was exposed to foreign currency risks in 2024 through U.S. dollar-denominated
commercial paper. These risks were hedged with foreign currency forward contracts and designated in a
cash flow hedge accounting relationship. The changes in value in the amount of €7 million resulting from
the change in the forward rate were recognized separately in equity as hedging costs, leading to an
increase in equity (previous year: €30 million increase in equity). Because all underlying transactions and
hedging instruments had expired by December 31, 2024, the amount of €7 million, which was initially
recognized in equity, was reclassified in full as an increase in earnings (previous year: €30 million
increase in earnings). There was no ineffectiveness at any time during the year.
In connection with construction of the new Verbund site in Zhanjiang, China, BASF is exposed to foreign
currency risks, especially from expenditures in euros that were hedged with foreign currency forward
contracts and designated in cash flow hedge accounting relationships. The hedged exchange rate was
¥7.6103 per euro in 2024 (previous year: ¥7.5738 per euro). The expenditures in euros hedged with
foreign currency forward contracts are firm commitments. In 2024, €2 million was derecognized from the
cash flow hedge reserve and included in the cost of property, plant and equipment (previous year:
€3 million). Hedging results are recognized in profit or loss upon depreciation of property, plant and
equipment.
Furthermore, BASF was exposed to a combined interest rate and currency risk in 2024 from a fixed-
interest loan in Polish zloty, which was converted to euros through currency swaps. This hedge was
designated as a cash flow hedge. The hedged exchange rate was zł4.7065 per euro and the hedged
interest rate was 3.20%. In 2024, the changes in value in the amount of €5 million resulting from the
forward component’s changed market rate were recognized separately in equity as hedging costs,
leading to a decrease in equity (previous year: €7 million increase in equity). There was no ineffectiveness
at any time during the year.
The effects of the hedging relationships on the balance sheet, the cash flow hedge reserve, hedged
nominal value and ineffectiveness to be determined are presented in the following tables by fiscal year.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 427
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Cash flow hedge accounting effects in 2024
Change in fair values for
assessing Recognized
Million € Carrying amount of hedging instruments Cash flow hedge reserve ineffectiveness ineffectiveness
Amounts
Hedging reclassified
effects to Income
recog- profit or statement
Accumulated nized loss for item for
amounts for in other realized recognition
continuing compre- hedging of Ineffective- Income
Financial Financial Balance Nominal hedging hensive trans- reclassifi- Hedging Hedged ness statement
assets liabilities sheet item value relationships income actions cation instrument transaction amount item
Other
receivables
and
miscella-
neous
assets / Other
Foreign other operating
currency risks 0 0 liabilities 63 -1 -25 20a income -1 -1 – n. a.
Other
receivables
Combined and
interest / miscella- Other
foreign neous financial
currency risks 301 – assets 2,525 -35 115 -127 income 322 322 – n. a.
Other
receivables
and
miscella- Other
Commodity neous operating
price risks 2 -1 assets 38 2b 25 0c income 3 3 – n. a.
Total 303 -1 2,626 -34 115 -106 324 324 –
a €2 million was derecognized from the cash flow hedge reserve, reducing the cost of property, plant and equipment.
b €15 million was recognized cumulatively in the cash flow hedge reserve for discontinued hedging relationships. These amounts are derecognized when the hedged
transaction occurs and included in the cost of the inventories procured.
c €8 million was derecognized from the cash flow hedge reserve, increasing the cost of inventories procured and then recognized in profit or loss upon consumption.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 428
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Cash flow hedge accounting effects in 2023
Change in fair values for
assessing Recognized
Million € Carrying amount of hedging instruments Cash flow hedge reserve ineffectiveness ineffectiveness
Amounts
Hedging reclassified
effects to Income
recog- profit or statement
Accumulated nized loss for item for
amounts for in other realized recognition
continuing compre- hedging of Ineffective- Income
Financial Financial Balance Nominal hedging hensive trans- reclassifi- Hedging Hedged ness statement
assets liabilities sheet item value relationships income actions cation instrument transaction amount item
Other
receivables
and
miscella-
neous
assets / Other
Foreign other operating
currency risks 10 -2 liabilities 611 6 16 -17a income 6 6 – n. a.
Other
operating
Interest risks – – n/a – – – – income – – – n. a.
Other
receivables
Combined and
interest / miscella- Other
foreign neous financial
currency risks 228 – assets 2,525 -23 -48 23 income 207 239 – n. a.
Other
receivables
and
miscella- Other
Commodity neous operating
price risks 5 -15 assets 376 -17 -24 –b income -17 -17 – n. a.
Total 242 -18 3,512 -34 -56 6 196 228 –
a €3 million was derecognized from the cash flow hedge reserve, reducing the acquisition cost of property, plant and equipment.
b €3 million was derecognized from the cash flow hedge reserve, increasing the cost of inventories procured, and recognized in profit or loss upon consumption.
The occurrence of all forecasted transactions was considered to be highly probable at all times during
fiscal years 2024 and 2023. Amounts accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve for commodity price
risks are derecognized against the carrying amount of acquired assets once the hedged transaction
occurs. Thus, there is no immediate reclassification of the amounts recognized in the cash flow hedge
reserve to profit or loss in these cases.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 429
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
26 Capital structure management and statement of cash flows
26.1 Capital structure management
The aim of capital structure management is to maintain the financial flexibility needed to further develop
BASF’s business portfolio and take advantage of strategic opportunities. The objectives of the
company’s financing policy are to ensure solvency, limit financial risks and optimize the cost of capital.
Capital structure management focuses on meeting the requirements needed to ensure unrestricted
access to the capital market and a Single A rating. Capital structure is managed using selected financial
ratios, such as dynamic debt ratios, as part of the company’s financial planning.
Equity of the BASF Group as reported in the balance sheet amounted to €36,992 million as of
December 31, 2024 (previous year: €36,646 million); the equity ratio was 45.9% on December 31, 2024
(previous year: 47.3%).
BASF prefers to access external financing on the capital markets and, when advantageous, via bank
loans. A commercial paper program is used for short-term financing, while corporate bonds are used for
financing in the medium and long term. These are issued in euros and other currencies with different
maturities. The goal is to create a balanced maturity profile, achieve a diverse range of investors and
optimize BASF’s debt capital financing conditions. Since 2020, BASF has employed green corporate
bonds to finance the development of sustainable products and projects with a clear environmental
benefit.
BASF currently has the following ratings, which were last confirmed by Fitch on November 1, 2024, by
Moody’s on November 18, 2024, and by Standard & Poor’s on December 2, 2024.
Ratings as of December 31, 2024
Noncurrent financial Current financial
indebtedness indebtedness Outlook
Fitch A F1 stable
Moody’s A3 P-2 stable
Standard & Poor’s A- A-2 stable
Ratings as of December 31, 2023
Noncurrent financial Current financial
indebtedness indebtedness Outlook
Fitch A F1 stable
Moody’s A3 P-2 stable
Standard & Poor’s A- A-2 stable
BASF strives for a Single A rating, which ensures unrestricted access to financial and capital markets (for
more information on BASF’s financing policy, see the Combined Management’s Report from page 56
onward).
BASF Report 2024 Notes 430
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
26.2 Statement of cash flows
Accounting policies
Cash flows from operating activities are determined using the indirect method whereby changes in
balance sheet items are adjusted for currency translation effects and changes in the scope of
consolidation and thus cannot be derived directly from the consolidated balance sheet.
BASF reports interest paid and dividends received in cash flows from operating activities. Income tax
payments from ongoing business are also allocated to cash flows from operating activities. In the case of
material transactions, however, these are reported in the corresponding section of the statement of cash
flows.
Cash flows from financing activities include payments for leases in which BASF is lessee as well as
dividend payments.
Payments are netted in cash flows from investing activities and cash flows from financing activities if they
are items with a high turnover rate, represent large amounts and have short-term maturities (for more
information on the statement of cash flows, see the Combined Management’s Report from page 57
onward).
Explanation of the statement of cash flows
Cash flows from operating activities contained the following payments:
Statement of cash flows
Million € 2024 2023
Income taxes -966 -760
of which income tax refunds 111 282
income tax payments -1,077 -1,042
Interest payments -454 -413
of which interest received 292 235
interest paid -746 -648
Dividends received 478 668
In order to optimize precious metal stocks, the Group sells precious metals and concurrently enters into
agreements to repurchase them at a set price. Cash flows resulting from the sale and repurchase in the
amount of -€55 million (previous year: -€447 million) were reported in cash flows from operating
activities.
Factoring agreements in the amount of €359 million had a negative impact on cash flows from operating
activities in 2024 (previous year: positive impact, €560 million).
The carrying amount of financial liabilities that are the subject of supplier financing agreements and are
reported as trade accounts payable amounted to €80 million in 2024 (previous year: €77 million). Of this,
an amount of €73 million was already paid by the financial services provider (previous year: €71 million).
The payment terms for these liabilities ranged between 0 and 120 days and for comparable trade
accounts payable that were not the subject of the agreements, between 0 and 60 days.
In 2024, cash flows from investing activities included €202 million in payments made for acquisitions.
This included the purchase price payment of €192 million for the acquisition of one of the two MDI plants
and the production plants for the precursors aniline and nitrobenzene resulting from the joint venture with
Huntsman, Shanghai Lianheng Isocyanate Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China. In the previous year, payments for
acquisitions were recognized in the amount of €5 million.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 431
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Payments received from divestitures amounted to €75 million and related solely to immaterial
transactions. In the previous year, payments received amounted to €32 million (for more information, see
Note 3 from page 344 onward).
Payments made for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets amounted to €6,198 million,
€803 million higher than in the previous year. This also includes capitalized interest in the amount of
€147 million (previous year: €80 million).
Payments for investments in equity instruments in 2024 included €598 million for the acquisition and
several subsequent capital increases of the equity-accounted shareholding in the Nordlicht 1 and 2 wind
farm projects.
In 2024, payments received from the disposal of equity instruments included the payment from the sale
of Wintershall Dea GmbH’s exploration and production business (Wintershall Dea AG until
September 23, 2024), Kassel/Hamburg, Germany, to Harbour Energy plc, London, United Kingdom, in
the amount of €1,169 million. In addition, Wintershall Dea made a capital repayment in the amount of
€556 million.
Cash and cash equivalents in the amount of €2,921 million (previous year: €2,624 million) consist
primarily of cash on hand and bank balances with maturities of less than three months. As in the previous
year, these were not subject to any utilization restrictions in 2024. However, the repayment of funds from
Russia is currently only possible to a limited extent. These amounted to €20 million as of
December 31, 2024 (previous year: €21 million).
The cash and cash equivalents presented in the statement of cash flows may deviate from the figures in
the balance sheet if the relevant amounts were reclassified to assets of disposal groups. As of
December 31, 2024, cash and cash equivalents were reported in the amount of €2,921 million in the
statement of cash flows; this included the balance sheet value (€2,914 million) as well as the value
reclassified to the disposal group (€7 million). In the previous year, the value in the balance sheet and in
the statement of cash flows were the same.
Lease payments totaled €679 million in 2024 (previous year: €654 million). The principal component of
€413 million (previous year: €401 million) is presented in cash flows from financing activities. BASF
reports interest payments, which amounted to €65 million (previous year: €54 million), in cash flows from
operating activities. Payments in connection with short-term leases, lease payments relating to low-value
assets, and variable lease payments that were not taken into account in the measurement of the lease
liability amounted to €201 million in 2024 (previous year: €199 million).
Reconciliation according to IAS 7 breaks down the changes in financial and similar liabilities and their
hedging transactions into cash-effective and non-cash-effective changes. The cash-effective changes
presented on the left correspond to the figures in cash flows from financing activities.
Other financing-related liabilities primarily comprise liabilities from accounts used for cash pooling with
BASF companies not included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. They are reported in
miscellaneous liabilities under the balance sheet item other liabilities, in which financial instruments are
presented.
Assets/liabilities from hedging transactions included in cash flows from financing activities form part
of the balance sheet items derivatives with positive and negative fair values respectively and include only
those transactions which hedge risks arising from financial indebtedness and financing-related liabilities
secured by micro hedges.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 432
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Reconciliation according to IAS 7 for 2024
Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
Million € 2023 Non-cash-effective changes 2024
Cash
effective in Acquisitions/
cash flows divestitures/
from changes in the Additions Changes
financing scope of Currency from lease Other in
activities consolidation effects contracts effects fair value
Financial
indebtedness 19,268 2,264 – 224 – 6 – 21,762
Loan liabilities 259 121 – 1 – -10 – 372
Lease liabilities 1,649 -413 – 27 428 -26a – 1,665
Other financing-
related liabilities 185 2 – – – 54 – 241
Financial and
similar liabilities 21,361 1,974 – 251 428 25 – 24,039
Assets/liabilities
from hedging
transactions -47 -191 – – – – 200 -38
Total 21,314 1,783 – 251 428 25 200 24,001
a Includes mainly disposals from lease contracts.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 433
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Reconciliation according to IAS 7 for 2023
Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
Million € 2022 Non-cash-effective changes 2023
Cash
effective in Acquisitions/
cash flows divestitures/
from changes in the Additions
financing scope of Currency from lease Other Changes in
activities consolidation effects contracts effects fair value
Financial
indebtedness 19,016 470 – -235 – 17 – 19,268
Loan liabilities 322 -45 – -2 – -16 – 259
Lease liabilities 1,489 -401 -1 -26 609 -20a – 1,649
Other financing-
related liabilities 250 -11 -3 – – -52 – 185
Financial and
similar liabilities 21,077 13 -5 -263 609 -71 – 21,361
Assets/liabilities
from hedging
transactions -155 245 – – – – -138 -47
Total 20,922 259 -5 -263 609 -71 -138 21,314
a Includes mainly disposals from lease contracts.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 434
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
27 Personnel expenses and employees
Personnel expenses
Expenses for wages and salaries, social security contributions and assistance, as well as for pensions
totaled €11,241 million in 2024. The increase was mainly due to a higher wage and salary level.
Personnel expenses
Million € 2024 2023
Wages and salaries 9,022 8,773
Social security contributions and assistance expenses 1,665 1,612
Pension expenses 554 565
Personnel expenses 11,241 10,950
Number of employees
As of December 31, 2024, the number of employees decreased to 111,822 employees compared with
111,991 employees as of December 31, 2023. The decline was primarily due to retirements and
departures due to dormant employment as well as measures in connection with the cost savings
program focusing on Europe. Staff increases in Asia Pacific, especially for the new Verbund site in
Zhanjiang, China, had an offsetting effect.
Employees of joint operations are included in the number of employees relative to BASF’s share in the
company. As of December 31, 2024, a total of 1,234 employees worked at joint operations (previous
year: 1,210 employees).
The development of the number of employees in the BASF Group was distributed over the regions as
follows:
Number of employees as of December 31
2024 2023
Europe 66,726 67,562
of which Germany 50,602 51,406
North America 15,969 16,060
Asia Pacific 21,971 21,193
South America, Africa, Middle East 7,156 7,176
BASF Group 111,822 111,991
of which apprentices and trainees 2,941 3,045
temporary staff 2,105 2,305
The average number of employees was distributed over the regions as follows:
BASF Report 2024 Notes 435
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Average number of employees
2024 2023
Europe 66,941 67,617
of which Germany 50,761 51,369
North America 16,064 16,077
Asia Pacific 21,616 20,822
South America, Africa, Middle East 7,123 7,075
BASF Group 111,744 111,590
of which apprentices and trainees 2,670 2,715
temporary staff 2,285 2,452
The average number of employees increased to 111,744 employees in 2024 (previous year:
111,590 employees).
The reasons for the development of the number of employees described above are also decisive to the
development of the average number of employees.
On average, 1,221 employees worked at joint operations (previous year: 1,202 employees).
28 Share price-based compensation programs and BASF incentive
share program
Share price-based compensation programs
The BASF Group’s share price-based compensation programs, or long-term incentive (LTI) programs,
are cash-settled programs. If vested, the cash-settlement obligation is measured at fair value on every
balance sheet date and recognized as a provision.
In 2024, the BASF Group continued offering its share price-based compensation program (LTI program),
known as Strive!, which was launched in 2020. The share price-based compensation program known as
“BOP” (BASF Option Program), which had existed since 1999, was offered for the last time in 2020. All
option rights granted during the BOP program years remain valid until the end of their respective exercise
periods.
Generally, members of the Board of Executive Directors and all senior executives are entitled to
participate in the LTI programs.
Strive!
Strive! is based on a performance share plan and takes into account the achievement of strategic goals
and the development of the BASF share and dividend (total shareholder return) over a period of four
years.
Participation in Strive! is voluntary for senior executives and is linked to a share ownership obligation.
Strive! offers rolling eligibility, without a deadline for participation. In 2024, 628 people (previous year:
684 people) were eligible to participate in Strive!. About 93% (previous year: 93%) of eligible senior
executives and the members of the Board of Executive Directors participated. Unlike for senior
executives, participation is not voluntary for the members of the Board of Executive Directors and is
outlined in their service contracts. The same plan conditions generally apply to members of the Board of
Executive Directors.
A Strive! plan includes a four-year performance period with a fixed disbursement date. A target amount is
determined at the beginning of each new Strive! plan for every participant. This target amount is
converted into a preliminary number of virtual performance share units (PSUs) by dividing it by the
BASF Report 2024 Notes 436
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
average BASF share price in the fourth quarter of the previous year. The number of PSUs that are
ultimately paid out at the end of the performance period depends on the achievement of the relevant
targets.
Achievement of each strategic target is calculated for each year of the four-year performance period.
Upon conclusion of the performance period, the average degree of target achievement for each strategic
target is equal to the arithmetic mean of the degrees of target achievement for the four years. The total
target achievement for the respective Strive! plan is determined by adding the target achievement degree
for the three strategic targets after having multiplied each by the corresponding weighting factor. To
calculate the final number of PSUs, this weighted target achievement is multiplied by the preliminary
number of PSUs. The payment amount upon conclusion of the four-year performance period is
calculated by multiplying the final number of PSUs by the average BASF share price for the fourth
quarter of the last year of the performance period, plus the accumulated dividend payments in the four
fiscal years. The payment occurs in May of the following year and is capped at 200% of the target
amount. The payment amount therefore not only reflects achievement of the strategic targets, but
performance of BASF’s dividend and share price as well.
A personal investment in BASF shares is the prerequisite for participation in Strive!. Participants are
required to own BASF shares amounting to a predetermined percentage of their base salary for the
duration of the performance period. A set-up phase applies to first-time participants. During this period,
they are required to hold a percentage of shares as their predetermined personal investment. The set-up
phase for the 2024 Strive! program ends on December 31, 2027. The 2024 Strive! program has the same
fundamental structure as the Strive! programs in previous years.
Fair value of PSUs and parameters used as of December 31, 2024
Strive! program of the year
2024 2023 2022 2021
Number of PSUs granted 1,163,568 1,005,987 698,732 720,090
Number of PSUs vested 290,892 502,994 524,049 720,090
Fair value including fluctuation / PSU € 42.33 37.94 42.81 65.68
Fair value excluding fluctuation / PSU € 47.85 41.17 44.59 65.68
Weighted target achievement % 109.0 84.4 85.3 113.1
Base price € 43.94 46.45 61.82 57.15
PSUs vested by the deadline were measured at fair value. Fair value is determined based on the BASF
share price of €42.46 on the balance sheet date plus expected dividend payments during the term of the
program and taking into account the expected target achievement rate of the respective Strive! plan. A
fluctuation rate of 4% is assumed for the fair value of senior executives’ PSUs.
The LTI provision for Strive! decreased from €118 million as of December 31, 2023, to €109 million as of
December 31, 2024, due to lower fair values. The expense from the addition to provisions totaled
€31 million in 2024 and €47 million in 2023. In 2024, the expiry of the four-year performance period and
associated payout in May for Strive!2020 resulted in utilization of €41 million. On the basis of preliminary
degrees of target achievement, a payment amount of €48 million was recognized in current provisions for
the fully vested 2021 program year.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 437
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
BASF Option Program (BOP)
The “BOP” LTI program last offered in 2020 grants virtual option rights. When exercised, the option rights
are settled in cash.
Participation in BOP was voluntary. In order to take part in the program, a participant had to make a
personal investment: Participants were required to hold BASF shares representing between 10% and
30% of their respective variable compensation for a two-year period from the granting of the option
(holding period). The number of shares to be held was determined by the amount of variable
compensation and the volume-weighted average share price on the first trading day after the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting.
Participants received four option rights per invested share. Each option consists of two parts, right A and
right B, which may be exercised if defined thresholds have been met: The threshold of right A is met if
the price of the BASF share has increased by more than 30% in comparison with the base price on the
option grant date (absolute threshold). The value of right A is the difference between the market price of
BASF shares on the exercise date and the base price; it is limited to 100% of the base price. Right B may
be exercised (relative threshold) if the cumulative percentage performance of BASF shares exceeds the
percentage performance of the MSCI World Chemicals IndexSM (MSCI Chemicals). The value of right B
is the base price of the option multiplied by twice the percentage by which the BASF share outperforms
the MSCI Chemicals Index on the exercise date. It is limited to the closing price on the date of exercise
less the calculated nominal value of the BASF share. Right B may only be exercised if the price of the
BASF share equals at least the base price. When a two-year vesting period is over, options granted can
be exercised until the end of the respective exercise period. During the exercise period, there are certain
times (closed periods) during which the options may not be exercised. Each option can only be exercised
in full, and one of the thresholds must be exceeded. If the other threshold is not exceeded, the other
option right lapses. A participant’s maximum gain from exercising an option is limited to five times the
original individual investment. Option rights are nontransferable and are forfeited if the option holders no
longer work for the BASF Group or have sold part of their individual investment before the expiry of the
two-year vesting period. They remain valid in the case of retirement. For the members of the Board of
Executive Directors, the long-term orientation of the program has been strengthened significantly
compared with the conditions applying to the other participants. Members of the Board of Executive
Directors were required to participate in the BOP program with at least 10% of their actual annual
variable compensation. In view of this binding personal investment (in the form of BASF shares), an
extended holding period of four years applies. Members of the Board of Executive Directors may only
exercise their option rights four years after they have been granted at the earliest (vesting period).
As a result of a resolution by the Board of Executive Directors in 2002 to settle option rights in cash, all
outstanding option rights under the 2017 to 2020 programs were valued at fair value as of
December 31, 2024.
The number of outstanding options declined from 7,731,844 as of December 31, 2023, to 6,190,727 as of
December 31, 2024, due mainly to the expiration of options from the 2016 BOP program.
The exercisable options had no intrinsic value as of December 31, 2024, or December 31, 2023.
The models used in the valuation of the option plans are based on the arbitrage-free valuation model
according to Black-Scholes. The fair values of the options are determined using the binomial model.
Volatility is determined on the basis of the monthly closing prices over a historical period corresponding
to the remaining term of the options.
The LTI provision for BOP decreased from €50 million as of December 31, 2023, to €20 million as of
December 31, 2024, due to lower fair values and a lower number of outstanding option rights. In 2023
BASF Report 2024 Notes 438
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
and in 2024, less than €1 million was utilized due to senior executives leaving the company. Income from
the reduction in provisions totaled €30 million in 2024 and €13 million in 2023.
BASF “Plus” incentive share program
The “plus” incentive share program was introduced in 1999 and is currently available to employees in
Germany, other European countries and Mexico. Simultaneous participation in both the “plus” program
and an LTI program is not permitted.
Employees who participate in BASF’s “plus” incentive share program acquire shares in BASF as a
personal investment from their variable compensation. For every 10 BASF shares purchased in the
program, a participant receives one BASF share at no cost after one, three, five, seven and 10 years of
holding these shares. As a rule, the first and second block of 10 shares entitles the participant to receive
one BASF share at no extra cost in each of the next 10 years.
The right to receive free BASF shares lapses if a participant sells the individual investment in BASF
shares, if the participant stops working for a Group company or one year after retirement. The number of
free shares to be granted has developed as follows:
Number of free shares to be granted
Shares 2024 2023
As of January 1 3,920,838 3,721,560
Newly acquired entitlements 585,725 1,001,995
Bonus shares issued -567,516 -665,428
Lapsed entitlements -153,351 -137,289
As of December 31 3,785,696 3,920,838
The free shares to be provided by the company are measured at the fair value on the grant date. Fair
value is determined on the basis of the BASF share price, taking into account the present value of
dividends, which are not paid during the term of the program. The weighted-average fair value on the
grant date amounted to €48.42 for the 2024 program, and €45.88 for the 2023 program.
The fair value of the free shares to be granted is recognized as an expense with a corresponding increase
in capital reserves over the term of the program.
Personnel expenses for BASF’s “plus” incentive share program totaled €24 million in 2024 and
€26 million in 2023.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 439
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
29 Compensation of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory
Board
Compensation of the Board of Executive Directors according to IFRS
Million € 2024 2023
Short-term non-performance-related and performance-related compensation of the Board of
Executive Directors 14.5 10.3
Share-based compensation 4.2 12.4
Termination benefits – 9.7
Other long-term benefits – –
Service costs for members of the Board of Executive Directors 1.9 3.3
Total compensation of the Board of Executive Directors 20.6 35.7
Compensation of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board according to section 314(1)
item 6 of the German Commercial Code (HGB)
Million € 2024 2023
Non-performance-related and performance-related compensation of the Board of Executive
Directors 14.5 10.3
Fair value of performance share units allocated to the Board of Executive Directors in the fiscal
year as of allocation date 12.1 9.2
Total compensation of the Board of Executive Directors 26.6 19.5
Compensation of the Supervisory Board (short-term and non-performance-related) 3.4 3.3
Total compensation of former members of the Board of Executive Directors and their surviving
dependents 12.4 11.8
Pension provisions for former members of the Board of Executive Directors and their surviving
dependents 179.9 172.8
Total compensation for the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board according to
IAS 24.17 amounted to €24.0 million in 2024 (previous year: €39.0 million).
In 2024, members of the Board of Executive Directors were allocated 260,569 performance share units
(PSUs) under the Long-Term-Incentive (LTI) plan (previous year: 214,253 PSUs) (for more information on
the LTI plans, see Note 28 from page 436 onward).
As of 2024, the short-term incentive (STI) for the Board of Executive Directors is based on an additive STI
formula. Three of the BASF Group’s financial targets (return on capital employed (ROCE), EBITDA before
special items, and cash flows from operating activities) are included in the STI, each with a weighting of
25%. Nonfinancial targets represent the Board of Executive Directors' other strategic priorities for the
fiscal year and are included in the STI with a weighting of 25%.
Up to and including 2023, the STI performance bonus was based on the performance of the Board of
Executive Directors as a whole and the return on capital employed (ROCE) of the BASF Group. Subject
to certain conditions, ROCE is adjusted for special items from acquisitions and divestitures. The
conditions for a ROCE adjustment were not met in either year.
»The Compensation Report is available at basf.com/compensationreport
30 Related party transactions
Related parties are legal or natural entities that can exert influence on the BASF Group or over which the
BASF Group exercises control or joint control, or a significant influence. These primarily include
BASF Report 2024 Notes 440
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
nonconsolidated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies as well as BASF SE’s Board of
Executive Directors and Supervisory Board.
The following tables show the volume of business with related parties that are included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements at amortized cost or accounted for using the equity method. The
tables do not include the acquisition of plants and inventories from the associated company, Shanghai
Lianheng Isocyanates Business Co. Ltd., which is described in Note 3. Transactions with related parties
are carried out under normal market conditions.
Sales and trade accounts receivable from and trade accounts payable to related parties mainly included
business with own products and merchandise, agency and licensing businesses, and other operating
businesses.
Other receivables and liabilities primarily arose from financing activities, from accounts used for cash
pooling, outstanding dividend payments, profit and loss transfer agreements, and other finance-related
and operating activities and transactions.
The increase in other receivables from nonconsolidated subsidiaries as well as from associated
companies resulted primarily from other finance-related receivables.
The increase in other liabilities to nonconsolidated subsidiaries as well as joint ventures resulted from
other finance-related liabilities and contract liabilities.
Balances outstanding to related parties were generally not hedged and were settled in cash.
The balance of valuation allowances on other receivables from nonconsolidated subsidiaries declined
from €136 million as of December 31, 2023, to €120 million as of December 31, 2024. The addition to
valuation allowances with respect to nonconsolidated subsidiaries was recognized as an expense in the
amount of €8 million (previous year: €42 million).
The balance of valuation allowances on trade accounts receivable from nonconsolidated subsidiaries
increased from €3 million as of December 31, 2023, to €4 million as of December 31, 2024. The balance
of valuation allowances on trade accounts receivable from joint ventures increased from €2 million as of
December 31, 2023, to €3 million as of December 31, 2024.
BASF had obligations from guarantees and other financial obligations in favor of nonconsolidated
subsidiaries in the amount of €5 million as of December 31, 2024, and €15 million as of
December 31, 2023, in favor of joint ventures in the amount of €42 million as of December 31, 2024, and
€19 million as of December 31, 2023, and in favor of associated companies in the amount of €3 million
as of December 31, 2024, and €1 million as of December 31, 2023.
Obligations arising from purchase contracts with joint ventures amounted to €2,943 million as of
December 31, 2024, and €3,071 million as of December 31, 2023. In both years, the obligations mainly
resulted from power purchase agreements.
Annual minimum rental payments for an office building including a parking area payable by BASF SE to
BASF Pensionskasse VVaG for the nonterminable basic rental period until 2029 amounted to €8 million
(previous year: €7 million). Furthermore, there were financial liabilities with BASF Pensionskasse VVaG
amounting to €266 million as of December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023: €215 million). BASF SE had
other finance-related receivables from BASF Pensionskasse VVaG in the amount of €80 million as of
December 31, 2024, and as of December 31, 2023.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 441
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Sales with related parties
Million € Supplies and services rendered Supplies and services received
2024 2023 2024 2023
Nonconsolidated subsidiaries 1,212 1,116 405 357
Joint ventures 655 824 1,070 1,241
Associated companies 136 193 193 1,137
The decline in services received from associated companies was mainly due to the expiration of supply
contracts with the former Wintershall Dea AG.
Trade accounts receivable from / trade accounts payable to related parties
Million € Accounts receivable, trade Accounts payable, trade
Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023 Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Nonconsolidated subsidiaries 417 358 92 142
Joint ventures 97 136 104 113
Associated companies 20 29 30 67
Other receivables from / liabilities to related parties
Million € Other receivables Other liabilities
Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023 Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Nonconsolidated subsidiaries 224 207 227 162
Joint ventures 25 24 86 23
Associated companies 30 15 15 13
There were no reportable related party transactions with members of the Board of Executive Directors or
the Supervisory Board and their related parties in 2024 other than those presented in Note 29 (from page
440 onward).
»The Compensation Report is available at basf.com/compensationreport
31 Services provided by the external auditor
BASF Group companies used the following services from Deloitte:
Services provided by the external auditor
Of which
Deloitte GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungs­
Million € 2024 gesellschaft, Germany
Annual audits 26 10
Audit-related services 1 1
Tax consultation services – –
Other services – –
Total 27 11
The services provided by the external auditor mainly included services for the annual audit and, to a
lesser extent, audit-related services.
The fees for annual audit services related to expenses for the audit of the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the BASF Group, the Financial Statements of BASF SE and of the subsidiaries and joint
BASF Report 2024 Notes 442
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
operations included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, the review of the half-year financial report,
and project-related IT audits.
Fees for audit-related services primarily included audits in connection with confirmation services relating
to sustainability reporting, other audits based on regulatory requirements, as well as other voluntary
confirmation services.
32 Declaration of Conformity with the German Corporate Governance
Code
Declaration pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
The annual Declaration of Conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code according to section
161 AktG was submitted by the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board of BASF SE in
December 2024 and is published online.
»For more information, see basf.com/en/corporategovernance
33 Non-adjusting events after the balance sheet date
On February 17, 2025, BASF announced the sale of the Brazilian decorative paints business, which is
part of BASF’s Coatings division, to Sherwin-Williams, Cleveland, Ohio. The purchase price on a cash
and debt-free basis is $1.15 billion. The transaction is structured as a share deal and includes the
production sites in Demarchi and Jaboatão, the associated contracts, the Suvinil and Glasu! brands and
around 1,000 employees. The decorative paints business generated sales of around €485 million in 2024
and operates almost exclusively in Brazil. The divestiture is expected to close in the second half of 2025,
subject to the approval of the relevant authorities.
BASF Report 2024 Notes 443
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
3
BASF Report 2024
Further Information
Further Information 444
External Audit 445
Statement by the Board of Executive Directors 446
Independent Auditor’s Report 447
Limited Assurance Audit on the Combined
Sustainability Statement 457
Report of the Supervisory Board 462
Selected Key Figures Excluding Precious and Base
Metals 472
Glossary 473
Trademarks 476
BASF Report 2024 Further Information 444
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
External Audit
Our reporting is independently audited by third parties. The appointed auditor, Deloitte GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, has audited the BASF Group Consolidated Financial Statements and
the Combined Management’s Report and has issued an unmodified audit opinion. The Auditor’s Report
can be found from page 447 onward of this report. With regard to the Combined Sustainability Statement
prepared by BASF SE in accordance with the ESRS adopted by way of Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) 2023/2772, which also includes the disclosures required under Article 8 of Regulation
(EU) 2020/852 (EU taxonomy), Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has performed a limited
assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised). The audit of the Management’s Report,
which was performed by the auditor as a reasonable assurance audit, included disclosures on CO
2
emissions (Scope 1 and 2) as a steering-relevant key performance indicator. Within the scope of the
audit of the annual financial statements, the auditor checked pursuant to section 317(2) sentence 4 HGB
that the NFS for BASF SE was presented in accordance with the statutory requirements. A reproduction
of the assurance report can be found on page 457 onward of this report.
The information contained in this report incorporates elements of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2 issued by the
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB™). None of the aforementioned information (IFRS S1
and S2) was included in the audit of sustainability reporting performed by Deloitte GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft.
BASF Report 2024 External Audit 445
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Statement by the Board of Executive Directors
and assurance pursuant to sections 297(2) and 315(1) of the German
Commercial Code (HGB)
The Board of Executive Directors of BASF SE is responsible for preparing the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Combined Management’s Report of the BASF Group.
The BASF Group Consolidated Financial Statements for 2024 were prepared according to the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union, as well as the
IFRSs in the version adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), London.
We have established effective internal control and steering systems in order to ensure that the BASF
Group’s Combined Management’s Report and Consolidated Financial Statements comply with
applicable accounting rules and to ensure proper corporate reporting.
The internal control and risk management system we have set up is specifically designed to enable the
Board of Executive Directors to identify material risks early on and take appropriate defensive measures
as necessary. The appropriateness and effectiveness of the internal control and risk management system
are continually audited throughout the Group by our Corporate Audit department.
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting rules, the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the BASF Group give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and
results of operations of the Group, and the Combined Management’s Report of the BASF Group includes
a fair review of the development and performance of the business as well as position of the BASF Group,
together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected
development of the BASF Group.
Ludwigshafen am Rhein, March 17, 2025
Dr. Markus Kamieth Dr. Dirk Elvermann Michael Heinz
Chairman of the Board of Chief Financial Officer
Executive Directors
Anup Kothari Dr. Stephan Kothrade Dr. Katja Scharpwinkel
BASF Report 2024 Statement by the Board of Executive Directors 446
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Independent Auditor’s Report
To BASF SE, Ludwigshafen am Rhein/Germany
Report on the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Combined
Management Report.
Audit Opinions
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BASF SE, Ludwigshafen am Rhein/Germany,
and its subsidiaries (the Group) which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31,
2024, the consolidated statement of profit and loss, income and expenses recognized in equity, the
consolidated statement of cash flows, changes in equity for the financial year from January 1 to
December 31, 2024 and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, including material accounting
policy information. We have not audited the content of the remuneration report, which is referred to in the
notes in chapter “(29) Compensation of the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board” and the
cross-references in the notes, including references to websites and information to which these
references refer to. In addition, we have not audited the content of the remuneration report pursuant to
Section 162 German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), which is referenced in the combined management
report, nor the disclosures within the combined management report marked as unaudited and cross-
references, including references to websites and information to which these references refer to.
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit,
– the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the IFRS®
Accounting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) (hereafter “IFRS
Ac-counting Standards”) as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German
commercial law pursuant to Section 315e (1) HGB and, in compliance with these requirements, give a
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2024
and of its financial performance for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2024; our audit
opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the content of the remuneration
report and the cross-references mentioned above including the related information; and
– the accompanying combined management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the
Group’s position. In all material respects, this combined management report is consistent with the
consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately
presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the combined
management report neither covers the content of the statements mentioned above, the remuneration
report, nor the disclosures extraneous to combined management report marked as unaudited and the
cross-references mentioned above including the related information.
Pursuant to Section 322 (3) sentence 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations
relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined
management report.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 447
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Basis for the Audit Opinions
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined management
report in accordance with Section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537/2014; referred to
subsequently as “EU Audit Regulation”) and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards
for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW). Our
responsibilities under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Combined
Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are independent of the Group entities in
accordance with the requirements of European law and German commercial and professional law, and
we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. In
addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) point (f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have
not provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation. We believe that
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the combined management report.
Key Audit Matters in the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our
audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year from January 1 to December 31,
2024. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements
as a whole and in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these
matters.
In the following, we present the key audit matters we have determined in the course of our audit:
1. Recoverability of goodwill
2. Recoverability of certain property, plant and equipment items.
Our presentation of these key audit matters has been structured as follows:
a) description (including reference to corresponding disclosures in the consolidated financial statements)
b) auditor’s response
1. Recoverability of goodwill
a) As at December 31, 2024, goodwill of mEUR 7,721 (9.6% of total assets) is recognized under the
balance sheet item “intangible asset” in the consolidated financial statements of BASF SE. The
executive directors of BASF SE perform annual impairment tests for goodwill according to IAS 36, at
the level of the cash-generating units or a group of cash-generating units. If an indication exists that a
cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units may be impaired, an impairment test is
performed outside the regular cycle.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amounts of the cash generating units with
the respective recoverable amounts. Such determination is based on present value-oriented methods
as usually there are no externally available market values for the individual cash-generating units or the
groups of cash-generating units. The recoverable amounts were calculated using discounted cash
flow models. The present value of the future cash flows is based on the most recent budgets/
forecasts approved by management, which are extrapolated using long-term growth rates. The
discounting of cash flows is based on the weighted average cost of capital of the respective cash-
generating unit. With respect to fiscal year 2024 no impairment for goodwill was identified.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 448
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The executive directors mainly exercise judgement within the determination of the parameters used to
forecast future cash flows in the detailed planning period, the assumptions for the long-term growth
rates and for the determination of the cost of capital. These assumptions have a significant impact on
the determination of the recoverable amounts.
The impairment tests to be carried out on goodwill are complex and require a considerable level of
judgment of the executive directors. Therefore, the impairment test of goodwill was of particular
importance in the context of our audit. This was particularly the case for the cash-generating unit
Battery Materials, as changes in valuation parameters, which were considered possible based on
current market developments, could lead to a need for impairment within these cash-generating units.
The executive directors’ disclosures on goodwill are included in the sections “(1.4) Accounting
policies” and “(14.1) Explanation of intangible assets” of the notes.
b) During our audit, we evaluated the executive directors’ approach in carrying out the impairment tests.
In a first step, we obtained an understanding of the process implemented by the executive directors to
carry out impairment tests. In addition, we evaluated the design of the controls identified as relevant to
our audit and determined whether they had been implemented. We assessed the discounted cashflow
models used by management with regards to methodical appropriateness and mathematical
accuracy. We examined whether the cash flows used in the valuations are consistent with, or have
been logically derived from, the budgets/forecasts approved by management. We evaluated the
reasonableness of the relevant assumptions underlying the budgets/forecasts made by the executive
directors on the basis of macroeconomic and industry-specific market data, as well as explanations
provided by the executive directors. We also assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used
for the derivation of the weighted average cost of capital and the appropriateness of the amount of the
weighted average cost of capital. To address the risk inherent to the uncertainty of the forecast, we
examined the impact on the recoverable amounts of possible variations in relevant valuation
parameters by evaluating the calculation of alternative scenarios (sensitivity analysis). In auditing the
impairment tests of goodwill, we used the work of our internal valuation specialists and, with their
support, assessed whether the methods applied, assumptions made, and data used by the executive
directors were reasonable.
2. Recoverability of certain assets within property, plant and equipment
a) The operating business of the BASF Group is asset-intensive, therefore property, plant and equipment
is of great relevance to the consolidated financial statements. As at December 31, 2024, property,
plant and equipment amounting to mEUR 27,197 (33.8% of total assets). Impairments in the amount
of mEUR 694 were recognized on property, plant and equipment, which related in particular to the
Battery Materials business in the Surface Technologies segment.
Items of property, plant and equipment are generally carried at their cost less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. An impairment of property, plant and
equipment is required if the recoverable amount is below the carrying amount. If there are indications
for an impairment, the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is determined on the
basis of the value in use. Such determination is based on present value-oriented methods due to the
fact that market values are usually not available for the individual items of property, plant and
equipment.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 449
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The impairment tests are complex and their outcome is highly dependent on the executive directors’
judgement. The assumptions to be made by the executive directors are, among other things, made
individually for each plant in terms of production volumes as well as prices and expected demand. As
a result, the audit of the recoverability of certain assets within property, plant and equipment, in
particular with respect to assets within Battery Materials in Germany, was of particular importance in
the context of our audit.
The executive directors’ disclosures on property, plant and equipment are included in sections “(1.4)
Accounting policies” and “(14.2) Explanation of property, plant and equipment” to the notes.
b) As part of our audit, we obtained a process understanding of the identification of indicators for an
impairment and the valuation of property, plant and equipment by the executive directors. For internal
controls relevant to the audit, we evaluated the design of the controls and determined whether they
had been implemented. As part of the audit of the impairment tests, we tested – in particular for the
identified property, plant and equipment of Battery Materials– the discounted cashflow models used
by management with regards to methodical appropriateness and mathematical accuracy. We
evaluated the reasonableness of the relevant assumptions underlying the budgets/forecasts made by
the executive directors on the basis of macroeconomic and industry-specific market data, as well as
explanations provided by the executive directors. We also assessed the appropriateness of the
methodology used for the derivation of the weighted average cost of capital and the appropriateness
of the amount of the weighted average cost of capital. In auditing the impairment tests of certain
assets within property plan and equipment, we used the work of our internal valuation specialists and,
with their support, assessed whether the methods applied, assumptions made, and data used by the
executive directors were reasonable.
Other information
The executive directors and/or the supervisory board are responsible for the other information. The other
information comprises
– the report of the supervisory board,
– the sustainability statement, which contains the information on the non-financial reporting according to
Sections 289b to 289e and 315b and 315c HGB,
– the remuneration report, which is referenced in the combined management report as well as in the
consolidated financial statements,
– the corporate governance statement,
– disclosures extraneous to the combined management report marked as unaudited and the cross-
references including the related information,
– the cross-references included in the notes including the related information,
– the executive directors’ confirmations regarding the consolidated financial statements and the
combined management report pursuant to Section 297 (2) sentence 4 and Section 315 (1) sentence 5
HGB and
– all other parts of the annual report,
– but not the consolidated financial statements, not the audited content of the combined management
report and not our auditor’s report thereon.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 450
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The supervisory board is responsible for the report of the supervisory board. The executive directors and
the supervisory board are responsible for the statement according to Section 161 AktG concerning the
German Corporate Governance Code, which is part of the corporate governance statement, and for the
remuneration report. Otherwise, the executive directors are responsible for the other information.
Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the combined management report do
not cover the other information, and consequently we do not express an audit opinion or any other form
of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in
doing so, to consider whether the other information
– is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the audited content of the
combined management report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
– otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of the Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board for the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Combined Management Report
The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that
comply, in all material respects, with IFRS Accounting Standards as adopted by the EU and the
additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Section 315e (1) HGB, and that the
consolidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the
assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group. In addition, the executive
directors are responsible for such internal control as they have determined necessary to enable the
preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud (i.e. fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriation of assets) or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the
going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the Group or to cease
operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so.
Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the combined management
report that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material
respects, consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal
requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. In addition,
the executive directors are responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have
considered necessary to enable the preparation of a combined management report that is in accordance
with the applicable German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence
for the assertions in the combined management report.
The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined management report.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 451
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the
Combined Management Report
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the combined
management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material
respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the
audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and
risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on the
consolidated financial statements and on the combined management report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with Section 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with German
Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der
Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial
statements and this combined management report.
We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also
– identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of
the combined management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our audit opinions, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from error, as fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls,
– obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial
statements and of arrangements and measures relevant to the audit of the combined management
report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the
purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of these internal controls of the Group or
of the arrangements and measures,
– evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the executive directors and the
reasonableness of estimates made by the executive directors and related disclosures,
– conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in the combined
management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective audit opinions.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going
concern.
– evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements,
including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance
with IFRS Accounting Standards as adopted by the EU and with the additional requirements of
German commercial law pursuant to Section 315e (1) HGB.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 452
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
– plan and perform the audit of the consolidated financial statements in order to obtain sufficient
appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business units within
the Group, which serves as a basis for forming audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements
and on the combined management report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
inspection of the audit procedures performed for the purposes of the group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinions.
– evaluate the consistency of the combined management report with the consolidated financial
statements, its conformity with German law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides.
– perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive directors in the
combined management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in
particular, the significant assumptions used by the executive directors as a basis for the prospective
information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective information from these assumptions.
We do not express a separate audit opinion on the prospective information and on the assumptions
used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from the
prospective information.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with the relevant
independence requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, the actions taken or
safeguards applied to eliminate independence threats.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that
were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the current period and
are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 453
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
Report on the Audit of the Electronic Reproductions of the Consolidated Financial
Statements and of the Combined Management Report prepared for Publication pursuant to
Section 317 (3a) HGB
Audit Opinion
We have performed an audit in accordance with Section 317 (3a) HGB to obtain reasonable assurance
whether the electronic reproductions of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined
management report (hereinafter referred to as “ESEF documents”) prepared for publication, contained in
the file, which has the SHA-256 value 61cce93ae3c50f91242d772fcedb24db7b4a8010a11a8da328a3e7
38a4205ead, meet, in all material respects, the requirements for the electronic reporting format pursuant
to Section 328 (1) HGB (“ESEF format”). In accordance with the German legal requirements, this audit
only covers the conversion of the information contained in the consolidated financial statements and the
combined management report into the ESEF format, and therefore covers neither the information
contained in these electronic reproductions nor any other information contained in the file identified
above.
In our opinion, the electronic reproductions of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined
management report prepared for publication contained in the file identified above meet, in all material
respects, the requirements for the electronic reporting format pursuant to Section 328 (1) HGB. Beyond
this audit opinion and our audit opinions on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and on
the accompanying combined management report for the financial year from January 1 to December 31,
2024 contained in the “Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the
Combined Management Report” above, we do not express any assurance opinion on the information
contained within these electronic reproductions or on any other information contained in the file identified
above.
Basis for the Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit of the electronic reproductions of the consolidated financial statements and of
the combined management report contained in the file identified above in accordance with Section 317
(3a) HGB and on the basis of the IDW Auditing Standard: Audit of the Electronic Reproductions of
Financial Statements and Management Reports Prepared for Publication Purposes Pursuant to Section
317 (3a) HGB (IDW AuS 410 (06.2022)). Our responsibilities in this context are further described in the
“Group Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the ESEF Documents” section. Our audit firm has
applied the requirements of the IDW Quality Management Standards.
Responsibilities of the Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board for the ESEF Documents
The executive directors of the Parent are responsible for the preparation of the ESEF documents based
on the electronic files of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined management report
ac-cording to Section 328 (1) sentence 4 no. 1 HGB and for the tagging of the consolidated financial
statements according to Section 328 (1) sentence 4 no. 2 HGB.
In addition, the executive directors of the Company are responsible for such internal controls that they
have considered necessary to enable the preparation of ESEF documents that are free from material
intentional or unintentional non-compliance with the requirements for the electronic reporting format
pursuant to Section 328 (1) HGB.
The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the process for preparing the ESEF documents as
part of the financial reporting process.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 454
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Group Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the ESEF Documents
Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ESEF documents are free from
material intentional or unintentional non-compliance with the requirements of Section 328 (1) HGB. We
exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also
– identify and assess the risks of material intentional or unintentional non-compliance with the
requirements of Section 328 (1) HGB, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion,
– obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit on the ESEF documents in order to
design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an assurance opinion on the effectiveness of these controls,
– evaluate the technical validity of the ESEF documents, i.e., whether the file containing the ESEF
documents meets the requirements of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/815, in the version in force
at the balance sheet date, on the technical specification for this electronic file,
– evaluate whether the ESEF documents enable an XHTML reproduction with content equivalent to the
audited consolidated financial statements and to the audited combined management report.
– evaluate whether the tagging of the ESEF documents with Inline XBRL technology (iXBRL) in
accordance with the requirements of Articles 4 and 6 of the Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/815, in
the version in force at the balance sheet date, enables an appropriate and complete machine-readable
XBRL copy of the XHTML reproduction.
Further Information pursuant to Article 10 of the EU Audit Regulation
We were elected as group auditor by the annual shareholders’ meeting on April 25, 2024. We were
engaged by the supervisory board on June 13, 2024. We have been the group auditor of BASF SE,
Ludwigshafen am Rhein/Germany, since the financial year 2024.
We declare that the audit opinions expressed in this auditor’s report are consistent with the additional
report to the audit committee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form audit report).
Other Matter – Use of the Auditor’s Report
Our auditor’s report must always be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements and
the audited combined management report as well as with the audited ESEF documents. The
consolidated financial statements and the combined management report converted into the ESEF format
– including the versions to be submitted for inclusion in the Company Register – are merely electronic
reproductions of the audited consolidated financial statements and the audited combined management
report and do not take their place. In particular, the ESEF report and our audit opinion contained therein
are to be used solely together with the audited ESEF documents made available in electronic form.
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 455
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
German Public Auditor Responsible for the Engagement
The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement is Michael Mehren.
Frankfurt am Main/Germany, March 18, 2025
Deloitte GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Signed: Kirsten Gräbner-Vogel Signed: Michael Mehren
Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)
BASF Report 2024 Independent Auditor’s Report 456
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Assurance Report in Relation to the Combined Sustainability Statement
To BASF SE, Ludwigshafen am Rhein/Germany
Assurance Report of the Independent German Public Auditor on a Limited
Assurance Engagement in Relation to the Combined Sustainability Statement
Assurance Conclusion
We have conducted a limited assurance engagement on the Sustainability Statement of BASF SE,
Ludwigshafen am Rhein/Germany, combining the Consolidated Sustainability Statement and the non-
financial statement of the parent (“Combined Sustainability Statement”), included in section
“(Consolidated) Sustainability Statement” of the combined management report for the parent and the
group, for the financial year from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024. The Combined Sustainability
Statement was prepared to fulfill the requirements of Directive (EU) 2022/2464 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of December 14, 2022 (Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive,
CSRD) and Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 and Sections 289b to 289e, 315b and 315c German
Commercial Code (HGB) for a combined non-financial statement.
Not subject to our assurance engagement are
– all prior year’s disclosures,
– the disclosures and references to information of the Company outside of the combined management
report (cross-references) marked as unassured, including references to websites, and including
information to which these cross-references refer, and
– the following references in the Combined Sustainability Statement to assurance reports or long-form
reports of other practitioners in relation to the assurance of information from sources within the value
chain contained in the Combined Sustainability Statement:
– Environmental impact assessments by independent third parties at selected sites
– Sustainability assessments by EcoVadis
– Audits / online assessments by TfS (Together for Sustainability)
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that
causes us to believe that the Combined Sustainability Statement is not prepared, in all material respects,
in accordance with the requirements of the CSRD and Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, Sections
289b to 289e, 315b and 315c HGB for a combined non-financial statement, and the specifying criteria
presented by the executive directors of the Company. This assurance conclusion includes that nothing
has come to our attention that causes us to believe
– that the Consolidated Sustainability Statement included in the accompanying Combined Sustainability
Statement does not comply, in all material respects, with the European Sustainability Reporting
Standards (ESRS), including that the process carried out by the entity to identify information to be
included in the Consolidated Sustainability Statement (the materiality assessment) is not, in all material
respects, in accordance with the description set out in section “General disclosures” of the
Consolidated Sustainability Statement, or
– that the disclosures in the Combined Sustainability Statement do not comply, in all material respects,
with Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852.
We do not express an assurance conclusion on the above-mentioned parts of the Combined
Sustainability Statement that were not covered by our assurance engagement.
BASF Report 2024 Assurance Report in Relation to the Combined Sustainability Statement 457
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Basis for the Assurance Conclusion
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board
(IAASB).
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are
less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance
obtained is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable
assurance engagement been performed.
Our responsibilities under ISAE 3000 (Revised) are further described in section “German Public Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Assurance Engagement on the Combined Sustainability Statement”.
We are independent of the entity in accordance with the requirements of European law and German
commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. Our audit firm has applied the requirements of the IDW Quality
Management Standards and of the International Standard on Quality Management (ISQM) 1 issued by
the IAASB. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our assurance conclusion.
Responsibilities of the Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board for the Combined Sustainability
Statement
The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the Combined Sustainability Statement in
accordance with the requirements of the CSRD and the applicable German legal and other European
requirements as well as with the specifying criteria presented by the executive directors of the Company
and for designing, implementing and maintaining such internal control as they have considered
necessary to enable the preparation of a combined sustainability statement in accordance with these
requirements that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud (i.e., fraudulent reporting in
the Combined Sustainability Statement) or error.
This responsibility of the executive directors includes establishing and maintaining the materiality
assessment process, selecting and applying appropriate reporting policies for preparing the Combined
Sustainability Statement as well as making assumptions and estimates and ascertaining forward-looking
information for individual sustainability-related disclosures.
The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the process for the preparation of the Combined
Sustainability Statement.
BASF Report 2024 Assurance Report in Relation to the Combined Sustainability Statement 458
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Inherent Limitations in Preparing the Combined Sustainability Statement
The CSRD and the applicable German legal and other European requirements contain wording and terms
that are subject to considerable interpretation uncertainties and for which no authoritative comprehensive
interpretations have yet been published. The executive directors have disclosed interpretations of such
wording and terms in the Combined Sustainability Statement.
The executive directors are responsible for the reasonableness of these interpretations. As such wording
and terms may be interpreted differently by regulators or courts, the legality of measurements or
evaluations of the sustainability matters based on these interpretations is uncertain. The quantification of
non-financial performance indicators disclosed in the Combined Sustainability Statement is also subject
to inherent uncertainties.
These inherent limitations also affect the assurance engagement on the Combined Sustainability
Statement.
German Public Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Assurance Engagement on the Combined
Sustainability Statement
Our objective is to express a limited assurance conclusion, based on the assurance engagement we
have conducted, on whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the
Combined Sustainability Statement has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with
the CSRD, the applicable German legal and other European requirements and the specifying criteria
presented by the executive directors of the Company and to issue an assurance report that includes our
assurance conclusion on the Combined Sustainability Statement.
As part of a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised), we exercise
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism. We also
– obtain an understanding of the process used to prepare the Combined Sustainability Statement,
including the materiality assessment process carried out by the entity to identify the disclosures to be
reported in the Combined Sustainability Statement.
– identify disclosures where a material misstatement due to fraud or error is likely to arise, design and
perform procedures to address these disclosures and obtain limited assurance to support the
assurance conclusion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from error, as fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations or the override of internal control. In
addition, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in information obtained from sources not
within the entity’s control (value chain information) is ordinarily higher than the risk of not detecting a
material misstatement in information obtained from sources within the entity’s control, as both the
entity’s executive directors and we as practitioners are ordinarily subject to restrictions on direct
access to the sources of the value chain information.
– consider the forward-looking information, including the appropriateness of the underlying
assumptions. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from the
forward-looking information.
BASF Report 2024 Assurance Report in Relation to the Combined Sustainability Statement 459
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Summary of the Procedures Performed by the German Public Auditor
A limited assurance engagement involves the performance of procedures to obtain evidence about the
sustainability information. The nature, timing and extent of the selected procedures are subject to our
professional judgment.
In performing our limited assurance engagement, we
– evaluated the suitability of the criteria as a whole presented by the executive directors in the
Combined Sustainability Statement.
– inquired of the executive directors and relevant employees involved in the preparation of the
Combined Sustainability Statement about the preparation process, including the materiality
assessment process carried out by the entity to identify the disclosures to be reported in the
Combined Sustainability Statement, and about the internal controls relating to this process.
– evaluated the reporting policies used by the executive directors to prepare the Combined
Sustainability Statement.
– evaluated the reasonableness of the estimates and related information provided by the executive
directors. If, in accordance with the ESRS, the executive directors estimate the value chain information
to be reported for a case in which the executive directors are unable to obtain the information from the
value chain despite making reasonable efforts, our assurance engagement is limited to evaluating
whether the executive directors have undertaken these estimates in accordance with the ESRS and
assessing the reasonableness of these estimates, but does not include identifying information in the
value chain that the executive directors were unable to obtain.
– performed analytical procedures or tests of details and made inquiries in relation to selected
information in the Combined Sustainability Statement.
– conducted site visits (remotely and on site).
– considered the presentation of the information in the Combined Sustainability Statement.
– considered the process for identifying taxonomy-eligible and taxonomy-aligned economic activities
and the corresponding disclosures in the Combined Sustainability Statement.
Restriction of Use
We issue this report as stipulated in the engagement letter agreed with the Company (including the
“General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüferinnen, Wirtschaftsprüfer and
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms)” dated January 1,
2024 of the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW)). We draw attention to the fact that the assurance
engagement was conducted for the Company’s purposes and that the report is intended solely to inform
the Company about the result of the assurance engagement. Consequently, it may not be suitable for
any other than the aforementioned purpose. Accordingly, the report is not intended to be used by third
parties as a basis for making (financial) decisions.
BASF Report 2024 Assurance Report in Relation to the Combined Sustainability Statement 460
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Our responsibility is to the Company alone. We do not accept any responsibility to third parties. Our
assurance conclusion is not modified in this respect.
Frankfurt am Main/Germany, March 18, 2025
Deloitte GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Signed: Michael Mehren Signed: Daniel Oehlmann
Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer
(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)
BASF Report 2024 Assurance Report in Relation to the Combined Sustainability Statement 461
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Report of the Supervisory Board
Dear Shareholder,
In the 2024 business year, the Supervisory Board once again regularly monitored the management of the
Board of Executive Directors and provided advice on the ongoing strategic development of BASF and
the measures proposed in this regard. One particular focal point lay in further improving competitiveness
– especially in Europe – in light of the continued challenging underlying conditions. Investments in future
profitable growth, particularly in Asia, were also in focus, as was the successful transfer of the oil and gas
business to Harbour Energy plc.
At the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in April 2024, Dr. Markus Kamieth assumed the role of Chairman of
the Board of Executive Directors. The Board of Executive Directors immediately initiated a
comprehensive review of the company’s ongoing strategic development. The future challenges facing
BASF and the strategic options were discussed in detail at multiple meetings of the Supervisory Board
and the Strategy Committee. The “Winning Ways” strategy comprises far-reaching changes, particularly
in terms of portfolio management and capital allocation, and management of the individual businesses.
The Supervisory Board firmly believes that this strategy is in the interests of our shareholders and the
company as a whole. The positive response from investors and the palpable support for this journey
within the company, in spite of the many changes it involves, pay testament to this assessment. The
Supervisory Board will continue to closely monitor the implementation of the measures proposed.
The Supervisory Board places great value on good corporate governance. It fulfills all legal and other
requirements with regard to its composition, competencies and independence. The Annual Shareholders’
Meeting elected Tamara Weinert as the successor to Dame Alison Carnwath DBE. The five remaining
shareholder representatives were confirmed in office for four years. As a consequence, the composition
and chairs of the committees were redetermined in some cases.
Cooperation between the Supervisory Board and the Board of Executive Directors remained intensive
and constructive, characterized by the joint pursuit of the best solutions for BASF’s future success. The
Supervisory Board would like to thank the Board of Executive Directors for their energetic commitment,
bold strategic decisions and successful management of the company. In particular, I wish to thank
Dr. Martin Brudermüller for his successful sixteen-year term working on the Board of Executive Directors,
including six years as Chairman in exceptionally challenging times, and for the seamless handover to
Dr. Markus Kamieth. Last but not least, the Supervisory Board would like to thank the employees all over
the world for their exceptional commitment in what was another challenging year.
Monitoring and consultation in an ongoing dialog with the Board of Executive Directors
In 2024, the Supervisory Board of BASF SE exercised its duties in full as required by law and the
Statutes. It regularly monitored the management of the Board of Executive Directors and provided advice
on the exceptionally significant strategic development in 2024 and important individual measures, about
which the Supervisory Board was regularly and thoroughly informed by the Board of Executive Directors.
This occurred both during and outside of the meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees in
the form of written and oral reports from the Board of Executive Directors on, for example, business
developments including the major financial key performance indicators of the BASF Group and its
segments, macroeconomic developments and the economic situation in the main sales and procurement
markets, and on deviations in business developments from original plans. Furthermore, the Supervisory
Board addressed fundamental questions of strategic planning, including financial, investment, sales
volumes and personnel planning, as well as measures for designing the future of research and
development. In particular, it focused on the ongoing strategic development of BASF, including the green
transformation, the integration of artificial intelligence, the capital allocation model and the dividend
policy. Regular discussions were held on the political and regulatory conditions and on the development
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 462
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
of key markets and customer industries. This also includes the impacts of changing global expectations
in terms of environmentally and socially sustainable corporate development. The further development of
the organization and processes to increase the competitiveness of BASF and its individual businesses
was also discussed intensely, especially the future vision for the Ludwigshafen site. The Supervisory
Board was convinced of the lawfulness, expediency and propriety of the Board of Executive Directors’
company leadership.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors were also
in regular contact outside of Supervisory Board meetings. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board was
always promptly and comprehensively informed of current developments and significant individual
matters. The Supervisory Board was involved immediately at an early stage in decisions of major
importance. In some cases following preparatory work by its committees, the Supervisory Board –
following detailed review and consultation – passed resolutions on all of those individual measures taken
by the Board of Executive Directors that by law or the Statutes required the approval of the Supervisory
Board. Resolutions were generally passed at Supervisory Board meetings and, if necessary, by written
circulation procedure.
Supervisory Board meetings
The Supervisory Board held six meetings in the 2024 business year. All members attended all meetings.
The meetings were held in person with the additional option of virtual participation. One Supervisory
Board member took part in two of the six meetings via video call. The members of the Supervisory Board
elected by shareholders and those elected by the employees prepared for the meetings in separate
preliminary discussions in each case, which were also attended by members of the Board of Executive
Directors.
All members of the Board of Executive Directors attended the Supervisory Board meetings unless it was
deemed appropriate that the Supervisory Board discuss individual topics – such as personnel matters
relating to the Board of Executive Directors – without them being present. In addition, each Supervisory
Board meeting included an agenda item that provided an opportunity for discussion without the Board of
Executive Directors (executive session). These agenda items concerned either the Board of Executive
Directors itself or internal Supervisory Board matters.
»An overview of the form of each meeting and members’ personal attendance at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees is
available at basf.com/supervisoryboard/meetings.
A significant component of all Supervisory Board meetings was the Board of Executive Directors’ reports
on the current business situation with detailed information on sales and earnings development, budget
deviations and opportunities and risks for business development. Furthermore, discussions were held
with the Board of Executive Directors on the underlying economic, political and regulatory conditions and
their potential impacts on BASF, as well as on capital market developments.
In all meetings held in 2024, the Supervisory Board also discussed the progress of major investments
and ongoing portfolio projects, such as the construction of the new Verbund site in Southern China, the
investment in two offshore wind farms in the German North Sea and the transfer of Wintershall Dea’s
non-Russian exploration and production business to Harbour Energy. Also at the fore were the measures
to safeguard the competitiveness of the Ludwigshafen site, including the rising importance of renewable
energies for supplying European sites in particular.
About the meetings in detail: On February 21, 2024, the Supervisory Board reviewed the Financial
Statements of BASF SE and the BASF Group for the 2023 business year that were submitted by the
Board of Executive Directors, the Combined Management’s Report, including the Nonfinancial Statement
as well as the dividend proposal, and approved the Financial Statements. In preparation, the auditor had
explained the process and results of the audit in detail the previous day and discussed them with the
Supervisory Board. In addition, the Supervisory Board discussed and approved the Compensation
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 463
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Report in accordance with section 162 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). It also discussed the
agenda for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024, and adopted proposals for resolutions.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board approved the holding of the 2024 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as
an in-person meeting. Other topics discussed at the meeting were general business development, 2024
annual planning and BASF’s sustainability-related targets.
The Supervisory Board met on April 25, 2024, to prepare for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
Discussions were also held on the next steps in the BASF strategy process.
Following the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024, the newly elected Supervisory Board held
its constituent meeting. Here, the Chair of the Supervisory Board and his two deputies, as well as the
members of the four committees and their respective Chairs, were elected.
The meeting on July 23 and 24, 2024, centered on the unveiling of the new “Winning Ways” strategy and
its internal and external communication. Key individual topics here were:
– Portfolio development, with a focus on core businesses and standalone businesses
– Growth markets, especially China, India and ASEAN
– Ongoing development of the strategic steering instruments
– Streamlining the organization through measures to increase efficiency
– Value potential of artificial intelligence, with sample applications
– “Winning Culture” as a central aspect of the new strategy
– Opportunities and risks associated with the green transformation of the chemicals sector and its
customer industries
– Vision for the Ludwigshafen site
– Performance measurement, capital allocation, and dividend policy
Another topic at the meeting was the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and its
potential impacts on reporting for the 2024 business year.
The Supervisory Board meeting on October 24, 2024, was held at BASF Schwarzheide, which gave the
Supervisory Board an opportunity to gain an impression of the site and its challenges, opportunities and
successful development. Discussions also focused on the status of the cost savings programs, strategic
research and development projects, the communication of the new strategy at the Capital Markets Day in
September and strategic options in the Coatings division.
At its meeting on December 19, 2024, the Supervisory Board discussed operational and financial
planning, including the investment budget for 2025, and, as in previous years, authorized the Board of
Executive Directors to procure the necessary financing in 2025 within a set limit. In addition, the
Supervisory Board dealt with leadership development, measures to achieve diversity targets and the
implementation status of the “Winning Culture.” The Board also discussed the current market
development in China and project progress, as well as preparation for the market launch of the new
Verbund site in Zhanjiang.
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 464
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Compensation and composition of the Board of Executive Directors
In several meetings over the 2024 business year, the Supervisory Board discussed and passed
resolutions on the compensation of the Board of Executive Directors.
At its meeting on February 21, 2024, the Supervisory Board deliberated and agreed on the 2024 targets
for the Board of Executive Directors’ short-term and long-term incentive (STI and LTI) based on the
preparations of the Personnel Committee. The Annual Shareholders Meeting on April 25, 2024, approved
the amendments to the compensation systems for the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory
Board starting 2024 that had already been resolved in December 2023. Furthermore, at its meeting on
December 19, 2024, the Supervisory Board evaluated, based on the discussions and the corresponding
recommendation of the Personnel Committee, the Board of Executive Directors’ performance in 2024.
The changes to the Board of Executive Directors, already decided by the Supervisory Board in 2023,
were implemented in 2024: With effect from April 25, 2024, Dr. Markus Kamieth succeeded Dr. Martin
Brudermüller as Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors following the end of the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting, with Dr. Martin Brudermüller stepping down from the Board of Executive
Directors at the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Dr. Markus Kamieth has been appointed as
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors until the end of the 2029 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Dr.
Katja Scharpwinkel joined the Board of Executive Directors as a new member, and as the successor to
Dr. Melanie Maas-Brunner, on February 1, 2024; Anup Kothari joined the Board of Executive Directors as
a new member on March 1, 2024.
»For more information on the compensation of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board, see the Compensation Report,
which has been made publicly available at basf.com/compensationreport.
»For more information on the compensation system for the Board of Executive Directors, see basf.com/compensation-system.
Committees
The Supervisory Board of BASF SE had the following four committees during the reporting period:
– Committee for personnel matters of the Board of Executive Directors (Personnel Committee)
– Audit Committee
– Nomination Committee
– Strategy Committee
The committees prepare resolutions and topics to be discussed by the entire Supervisory Board.
Following each Committee meeting, the chairs of the Committees reported in detail about the meetings
and the activities of the Committees at the subsequent meeting of the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board has not established a special sustainability committee. Sustainability is of such
fundamental importance to the BASF Group that it is the focus of the work of the entire Supervisory
Board and is discussed intensively in plenary sessions. As a material crosscutting issue, sustainability
determines BASF’s strategy and therefore all the Supervisory Board’s supervision activities.
Sustainability expertise is therefore broadly embedded in the Supervisory Board and has long been a
very important requirement for its work. In the 2024 business year, the Supervisory Board discussed in
detail the opportunities and risks for the company associated with social and environmental factors as
well as the ecological and societal impacts of BASF’s activities. This also applies to the significant issue
of reducing CO emissions and the targeted conversion of business activities to emission-free power
2
supply and production processes with a lower emission rate.
For further information on the composition of the Committees and the tasks assigned to them by the
Supervisory Board, see the Corporate Governance Report from page 118 onward. For information of the
significant impacts, risks and opportunities for BASF dealt with by the Supervisory Board in the 2024
business year, see the Corporate Governance Report from page 129 onward.
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 465
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The Personnel Committee met three times during the reporting period. All meetings were held in person
with the additional option of virtual participation. All committee members attended all meetings. At one
meeting, one Committee member took part via video call. At the meeting on February 19, 2024, the
Personnel Committee discussed the target agreement for the Board of Executive Directors for 2024
(short-term incentive) and the targets for the long-term compensation for the Board of Executive
Directors for the period 2024 to 2027 (long-term incentive). At the meeting on July 24, 2024, the
Personnel Committee focused on the succession process for BASF executives and the results of the
Employee Voices 2024 staff survey. At the meeting on December 18, 2024, the Personnel Committee
deliberated on target achievement for the Board of Executive Directors’ short-term incentive for 2024.
In respect of its composition, the Supervisory Board expanded the Personnel Committee from four to six
members following the election of the shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board by the
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024. Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer was elected as the
new Chairman of the Personnel Committee.
The Audit Committee met five times during the reporting period. Four meetings were held in person with
the additional option of virtual participation and one meeting was held as a hybrid meeting. All committee
members attended all meetings. Two committee members took part in the hybrid meeting via video call.
The Audit Committee is responsible for all the tasks listed in section 107(3) sentence 2 of the German
Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring the internal process for identifying related party
transactions and adopting resolutions to approve related party transactions. In addition, the Audit
Committee monitors and discusses the appropriateness and effectiveness of the compliance
management system and deals with compliance issues including compliance with statutory and internal
regulations regarding safety, health and environmental protection.
Following the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25, 2024, the Supervisory Board elected Alessandra
Genco as the Chairwoman of the Audit Committee; she is the successor to Dame Alison Carnwath DBE,
who has stepped down from the Supervisory Board.
The auditor also attended the meetings in February, July, October and December. The Audit Committee
also discussed matters with the auditor in a separate part of the meeting without the Board of Executive
Directors present (executive session). The chair of the Audit Committee also maintained regular contact
with the auditor between meetings, in particular regarding the progress of the annual audit, and reported
back to the committee.
At the meeting on February 20, 2024, the auditor reported in detail on its audits of BASF SE’s Individual
and Consolidated Financial Statements for the 2023 business year, including the Combined
Management’s Report, and discussed the results of its audit with the Audit Committee. The Committee’s
audit also included the Nonfinancial Statement of BASF SE and the BASF Group, sustainability reporting
as well as the Compensation Report of BASF SE in accordance with section 162 AktG, which had been
audited by the auditor. In preparation for the audit of the Nonfinancial Statement, the Audit Committee
had, following a corresponding resolution by the Supervisory Board, additionally engaged the auditor for
the 2023 business year, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, to perform a limited assurance and
issue an assurance report on it. KPMG reported in detail on the focus, the procedure and the key
findings of this audit. The meeting of February 20, 2024, also evaluated the quality of the audit. The Chief
Financial Officer also provided the Audit Committee with reports on sustainable finance and its
importance for BASF’s financing activities.
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 466
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
At its meeting on April 24, 2024, the Audit Committee addressed the BASF Group’s Quarterly Statement
for the first quarter of 2024, which was due for publication, the internal risk management system and the
EHS audits at the BASF Group over the prior 12-month period. Other topics discussed at the meeting
were the tax position and insurance law concepts in place at BASF.
Focus topics at the meeting on July 23, 2024, were the BASF Group’s Half-Year Financial Report, the
internal audit system and key findings of the internal audit, on which the head of the Corporate Audit
department reported. In addition, the Head of Group Reporting & Performance Management reported on
the substantive provisions and regulatory requirements of the CSRD as well as impacts on the reporting
for the 2024 business year.
At the meeting on July 23, 2024, the Audit Committee engaged Deloitte GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft – the auditor elected by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on April 25,
2024 – with the audit for the 2024 reporting year and auditing fees were agreed upon. The Audit
Committee approved the audit plan and discussed and defined the focus areas and scope of the annual
audit together with the auditor.
The meeting on October 23, 2024, centered on the BASF Group’s Quarterly Statement for the third
quarter of 2024 and the post-audit on major acquisitions and divestitures. The meeting also addressed
the reporting on related party transactions as well as the Committee’s annual self-assessment of the
effectiveness and efficiency of its work.
At the meeting on December 18, 2024, the auditors furnished the Audit Committee with a detailed report
on the status of the annual audit, as well as the focus areas and the most important individual items. The
Chief Financial Officer provided the Audit Committee with a report on the significant impacts, risks and
opportunities for BASF in connection with 2024 sustainability reporting. The Audit Committee also
received reports on the internal control system for financial reporting and the appropriateness and
effectiveness of the internal control system and the risk management system. It discussed the process
for reviewing and evaluating the appropriateness and effectiveness of these systems in connection with
the implementation of Recommendation A.5 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Furthermore,
the head of the Corporate Compliance unit reported on compliance topics.
At all meetings, the Audit Committee addressed the main pending accounting issues and risks arising
from threatened or pending litigation.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for preparing candidate proposals for the Supervisory Board
members to be elected by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The Nomination Committee is guided by
the objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board adopted by the Supervisory Board as well as
the competence profile and diversity concept for the Supervisory Board. The Nomination Committee did
not meet during the reporting period.
For information on the objectives for the composition of the Supervisory Board as well as the
competence profile and diversity concept for the Supervisory Board, see the Corporate Governance
Report on page 121.
The Strategy Committee, set up to consult on strategic options for the ongoing development of the
BASF Group, met three times in the reporting period. All meetings were held in person with the additional
option of virtual participation. All committee members attended all meetings. At all three meetings, three
Committee members took part via video call. At its meeting on June 3, 2024, the Committee discussed
the current status of measures to improve competitiveness at the Ludwigshafen site and the vision for
the site as part of the current strategy process. On July 5, 2024, the Strategy Committee consulted on
the strategic positioning of BASF and on potential portfolio developments. The main topics at the
meeting on September 9, 2024, were the new “Winning Ways” strategy, future capital allocation options
and the internal and external communication measures, including as part of the Capital Markets Day.
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 467
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Training measures
Individual onboarding sessions are held for the new members of the Supervisory Board to familiarize
them with corporate governance at BASF, the organization, the business processes and internal
structures of the BASF Group, and the composition of its businesses and their strategies. Above and
beyond this, the company also supports the members of the Supervisory Board with training for their
activities on the Supervisory Board, whether through external offerings such as topic-specific seminars
or internal information offerings such as site and plant visits to give them an insight into the portfolio as
well as production and manufacturing methods. As part of its meeting on October 24, 2024, the
Supervisory Board visited the Schwarzheide site. In addition, all members of the Supervisory Board
attended informational events held by the company concerning the reporting requirements pursuant to
the CSRD and the process/results of the double materiality assessment conducted at BASF.
Corporate governance and Declaration of Conformity
In 2024, the Supervisory Board was once again intensely occupied with the corporate governance
standards practiced in the company and the implementation of the recommendations and suggestions of
the German Corporate Governance Code in the version dated April 28, 2022.
In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code and the guiding
principles for the dialog between investors and German supervisory boards, the Chairman of the
Supervisory Board once again discussed corporate governance matters with investors in 2024. In
particular, these conversations took place ahead of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting; important topics
were the agenda for the 2024 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and the upcoming Supervisory Board
elections.
At its meeting on December 19, 2024, the Supervisory Board approved the joint Declaration of
Conformity by the Supervisory Board and the Board of Executive Directors in accordance with section
161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). BASF follows all of the recommendations of the 2022
German Corporate Governance Code. The Corporate Governance Report provides extensive information
on the BASF Group’s corporate governance.
The full Declaration of Conformity is rendered on page 145 and is available at
basf.com/en/corporategovernance.
Independence and efficiency review
An important aspect of good corporate governance is the independence of Supervisory Board members
and their freedom from conflicts of interest. The Supervisory Board bases the assessment of the
independence of its members on the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code and
the additional criteria for assessing the independence of Supervisory Board members contained in the
Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board. It also pays due regard to the new European Sustainability
Reporting Standards (ESRSs), published as a delegated act in the Official Journal of the EU on
December 22, 2023, when assessing the independence of its members. The criteria used to assess
independence are presented in detail in the Corporate Governance Report. Based on these criteria, the
Supervisory Board came to the conclusion that all of the six shareholder representatives and five of the
six employee representatives – 11 of the 12 members of the Supervisory Board in total – are considered
to be independent as of the end of 2024. Employee representative Michael Vassiliadis was formally
classified as nonindependent due to the length of his membership on the Supervisory Board, which
exceeds 12 years. Above and beyond this, the Supervisory Board does not see any indications that the
Supervisory Board role is not performed completely independently. In cases where Supervisory Board
members hold supervisory or management positions at companies with which BASF has business
relations, we see no impairment of their independence. The scope of these businesses is not material
and furthermore, they are conducted at arm’s length.
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 468
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
The Supervisory Board regularly reviews the efficiency of its activities in the form of a self-assessment.
To this end, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board conducted a written survey of all Supervisory Board
members in the fourth quarter of 2024 on the basis of a detailed questionnaire covering the entire range
of relevant Supervisory Board topics, supplemented by individual discussions. The results were
presented and discussed at the December meeting. They confirmed that the Supervisory Board works
together professionally and with a high degree of trust. The composition and structure of the Supervisory
Board continue to be regarded as effective and efficient.
The Audit Committee also conducted a self-assessment of its activities in 2024. This was based on a
questionnaire sent to all members of the Audit Committee, the results and detailed suggestions of which
were discussed by the Audit Committee at its meeting on October 23, 2024. Material subjects were the
organization and content of meetings, meeting documents and reports, participants and quality of
discussions at meetings, reporting to the Supervisory Board on the work of the Audit Committee, access
to external and internal auditors, cooperation with management and the appropriateness of the Audit
Committee’s performance of its duties in accordance with the Statutes and the Rules of Procedure. On
this basis, the members judged the Audit Committee’s work to be efficient and appropriate. There was
no fundamental need for improvement.
Separate and Consolidated Financial Statements; Compensation Report
Deloitte GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor newly elected by the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting for the 2024 reporting year, has audited the Financial Statements of BASF SE and the
BASF Group Consolidated Financial Statements, which were prepared in accordance with the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, and the additional
requirements that must be applied in accordance with section 315e(1) of the German Commercial Code
(HGB), including the Combined Management’s Report and the accounting records from which they were
prepared, and have approved them free of qualification. Furthermore, the auditor certified that the Board
of Executive Directors had taken the measures incumbent on it under section 91(2) of the German Stock
Corporation Act (AktG) in an appropriate manner. In particular, it had instituted an appropriate early risk
detection system that fulfilled the requirements of the company and is suitable for the early identification
of developments that could pose a risk to the continued existence of the BASF Group. The results of the
audit as well as the procedure and material findings of the audit of the financial statements are presented
in the Auditor’s Report.
The Auditor’s Report is rendered from page 447 onward. For more information on the auditor, see the
Corporate Governance Report on page 140.
As the CSRD Implementation Act has not yet been passed in Germany, the CSR Directive
Implementation Act (CRS-RUG), which transposed the previous European Nonfinancial Reporting
Directive (NFRD) into German law, remains the relevant legal basis for BASF’s sustainability reporting in
the 2024 business year. For this reason, a Nonfinancial Statement was once again prepared for the BASF
Group and BASF SE in accordance with section 289b of the German Commercial Code (HGB) in the
2024 business year. The ESRSs served as an acknowledged reporting framework within the meaning of
section 289d HGB for the Nonfinancial Statement.
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 469
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Given this legal situation, the Supervisory Board followed the recommendation of the Audit Committee
by instructing Deloitte, above and beyond the statutory audit, to conduct a substantive audit with limited
assurance of the Nonfinancial Statements for BASF SE and the BASF Group, which form an integral part
of the Combined Management’s Report. Based on the limited assurance conducted, Deloitte did not
raise any objections to the reporting and its compliance with the relevant statutory requirements. The
auditor also audited the Compensation Report for the 2024 business year established in accordance with
section 162 AktG, including the related disclosures.
The assurance report issued by Deloitte on the substantive audit of the combined Sustainability
Statement can be found from page 457 onward.
»The assurance report issued by Deloitte on the audit of the Compensation Report can be found at basf.com/compensationreport.
As the audit of the 2024 financial statements was considerably more extensive than in previous years
due to the Nonfinancial Statement prepared in accordance with ESRS for the first time, the audit process
at BASF was extended. The accounts meetings of the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board on
February 25 and February 26, 2025, focused on the audit of the preliminary results and significant
sustainability targets, as well as the proposal for the appropriation of profit for the 2024 business year.
The final accounts meetings of the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board on March 18 and 19,
2025, focused on the Nonfinancial Statement prepared in accordance with ESRS and on the changes
that had arisen in financial reporting. The auditor attended both accounts review meetings of the Audit
Committee and both accounts meetings of the Supervisory Board, and reported each time on the
procedure and material findings of its audit, including the key audit matters described in the Auditor’s
Report. The auditor’s reports were sent in a timely manner to every member of the Supervisory Board
ahead of each meeting. The auditor also provided the Supervisory Board with detailed explanations of
the reports on the day before each accounts meeting.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Individual and Consolidated Financial Statements of BASF SE as well
as the Combined Management’s Report including the Nonfinancial Statement and the Compensation
Report at its meetings on February 25, 2025, and March 18, 2025, including the reports prepared by the
auditor and the key audit matters specified in the Auditor’s Report, and discussed them in detail with the
auditor. The chair of the Audit Committee gave a detailed account of this preliminary review at the
Supervisory Board meetings on February 26, 2025, and March 19, 2025. On this basis, the Supervisory
Board examined the Financial Statements of BASF SE for 2024, the proposal by the Board of Executive
Directors for the appropriation of profit, and the 2024 Consolidated Financial Statements and Combined
Management’s Report for the BASF Group and BASF SE. The results of the preliminary review by the
Audit Committee and the results of the Supervisory Board’s own examination fully concur with those of
the audit. The Supervisory Board sees no grounds for objection to the management or the reports
submitted.
At its final accounts meeting on March 19, 2025, the Supervisory Board approved the Financial
Statements of BASF SE and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the BASF Group prepared by the
Board of Executive Directors, making the 2024 Financial Statements of BASF SE final. The Supervisory
Board concurred with the proposal of the Board of Executive Directors regarding the appropriation of
profit and the payment of a dividend of €2.25 per share.
Also at the meeting on March 19, 2025, the Supervisory Board discussed with the Board of Executive
Directors the joint Compensation Report of the Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board
in accordance with section 162 AktG and approved it.
»The Compensation Report is available at basf.com/compensationreport.
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 470
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Composition of the Supervisory Board
The term of office of the Supervisory Board ended upon completion of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
on April 25, 2024. The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting elected Tamara Weinert, who was nominated for
election for the first time, and the previous members Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer, Dr. Kurt Bock,
Prof. Dr. Thomas Carell, Liming Chen and Alessandra Genco as shareholder representatives.
Dame Alison Carnwath DBE stepped down from the Supervisory Board at the end of the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting.
According to the provisions of the Employee Participation Agreement of November 30, 2023, the six
employee representatives had already been elected by the BASF Europa Betriebsrat (BASF Works
Council Europe) without any change to the existing composition. In accordance with the Statutes, the
term of office of the current Supervisory Board ends upon completion of the 2028 Annual Shareholders’
Meeting.
According to the Supervisory Board’s assessment, the current members meet the objectives for the
composition of the Supervisory Board in full with respect to the competence profile and the diversity
concept. This also applies to the expertise on the sustainability topics important to BASF.
I wish to thank Dame Alison Carnwath DBE, who had served on the Supervisory Board since 2014 and
who was also Chair of the Audit Committee, for her long-standing, constructive and trust-based
cooperation and her significant contributions to the success and ongoing development of the company.
The Supervisory Board wishes to thank all members of the Board of Executive Directors as well as the
current and former Chairmen for their tremendous dedication and outstanding leadership in what was
once again a very challenging year. Moreover, the Supervisory Board would like to thank all employees
all over the world for their exceptional commitment to BASF.
Ludwigshafen, March 19, 2025
The Supervisory Board
Dr. Kurt Bock
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
BASF Report 2024 Report of the Supervisory Board 471
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Selected Key Figures Excluding Precious and Base Metals1
BASF Group
2024 2023
Adjusted Adjusted
IFRS figure figure IFRS figure figure
Sales million € 65,260 59,860 68,902 60,650
Volumes % 1.8 3.5 -8.4 -7.2
Prices % -5.2 -2.8 -10.0 -7.9
Currencies % -1.8 -1.9 -2.5 -2.5
Portfolio % -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 -0.3
EBITDA before special items million € 7,858 7,858 7,671 7,671
EBITDA margin before special items % 12.0 13.1 11.1 12.6
Surface Technologies
2024 2023
Adjusted Adjusted
IFRS figure figure IFRS figure figure
Sales million € 12,898 7,498 16,204 7,952
Volumes % -7.6 -3.9 -9.6 0.2
Prices % -11.0 1.3 -11.1 6.3
Currencies % -1.6 -2.7 -3.1 -4.6
Portfolio % -0.2 -0.4 -0.1 -0.4
EBITDA before special items million € 1,375 1,375 1,520 1,520
EBITDA margin before special items % 10.7 18.3 9.4 19.1
1 The IFRS figures correspond to the amounts presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The adjusted figures exclude sales from precious and base metal services
as well as precious and base metal sales in the Catalysts business.
BASF Report 2024 Selected Key Figures Excluding Precious and Base Metals 472
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Glossary
B
Biodiversity and ecosystems
Biodiversity refers to the diversity of all life forms on earth. It encompasses the diversity of ecosystems,
the different species that inhabit these ecosystems and the genetic diversity within these species.
Ecosystems are communities of living organisms (plants, animals, microorganisms) and their physical
environment (air, water, soil) that interact within a specific space. Ecosystems can be very diverse, from
forests and deserts to oceans and urban areas.
C
Circular economy
The circular economy is a regenerative system in which economic growth is decoupled from the
consumption of finite resources. The circular economy is based on the fundamental principles of
preventing waste and pollution, using products and materials for as long as possible and regenerating
natural systems at the same time.
CO equivalents
2
CO equivalents (CO e) are units for measuring the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on the
2 2
greenhouse effect. A factor known as the global warming potential (GWP) shows the impact of the
individual gases compared with CO as the reference value.
2
D
Differentiated Steering
In order to increase the competitiveness of its operating divisions, BASF is introducing a set of measures.
These include the introduction of new financial steering indicators tailored to each business. Additionally,
our operating divisions are continuing to adjust their specific business models and processes, supported
by adapted process structures, IT systems and governance frameworks.
Double materiality
Double materiality as defined by the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) is a concept
that is applied in the materiality assessment. The principle of double materiality looks at sustainability
aspects from two perspectives: 1. Impact materiality, which determines the actual and potential positive
and negative impacts of business activities have on various sustainability topics. 2. Financial materiality,
which considers the opportunities and risks of sustainability topics for a company’s financial position.
BASF Report 2024 Glossary 473
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
E
Eco-Efficiency Analysis
The Eco-Efficiency Analysis is a method developed by BASF for assessing the economic and
environmental aspects of products and processes. The aim is to compare products with regard to
profitability and environmental compatibility.
ESRS
The European Sustainability Reporting Standards provide a framework for companies to report on
environmental, social and governance topics. The standards were developed by the European Financial
Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) and are binding for all companies subject to the Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD).
»For a comprehensive overview of the abbreviations and definitions used in the ESRS, see
https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-12481-2023-ADD-2/en/pdf
EU taxonomy
The European Union (EU) strives to be climate neutral by 2050 as part of the Green Deal. The EU
taxonomy serves as an instrument for that purpose. It provides a common classification system for
economic activities based on their substantial contribution to environmental objectives. The EU
Taxonomy Regulation obliges large companies, among others, to disclose sales revenues as well as
capital and operating expenditures that contribute to at least one of the six environmental objectives
listed in the taxonomy system.
F
Formulation
Formulation describes the combination of one or more active substances with excipients like emulsifiers,
stabilizers and other inactive components in order to improve the applicability and effectiveness of
various products, such as cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, agricultural chemicals, paints and coatings.
J
Just transition
Just transition refers to a concept for a socially just transformation of a social and economic order
toward climate neutrality. To this end, ecological, economic and social challenges are to be given equal
consideration, with a particular focus on vulnerable populations.
BASF Report 2024 Glossary 474
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
P
Peak sales potential
The peak sales potential of the Agricultural Solutions pipeline describes the total peak sales forecast for
individual products in the research and development pipeline. Peak sales are the highest sales value to
be expected from one year. The pipeline comprises innovative products that have been on the market
since 2024 or will be launched on the market by 2034.
Policy
In this report, we use the word policy or requirement to describe internal frameworks that set out the
fundamental guidelines of our company. At BASF, policies are set by the Board of Executive Directors
and define principles relating to a specific topic. Separate requirements define the processes for
implementing a policy.
S
Steam cracker
A steam cracker is a plant in which steam is used to “crack” naphtha (petroleum) or natural gas. The
resulting petrochemicals are the raw materials used to produce most of BASF’s products.
Substances of concern or very high concern
Substances of concern (SoC) are chemical substances which, if handled improperly, may have
potentially harmful effects on human health or the environment and which, based on their properties,
have a harmonized classification under the European CLP Regulation. Substances of very high concern
(SVHC) are a specific category of substances that are characterized by their serious properties, such as
carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic effects. These substances are identified, included on a candidate
list and specially monitored under the EU chemicals regulation REACH. According to REACH, suppliers
are obliged to indicate substances that have been included in the candidate list and are contained in
products on the safety data sheet.
T
Traits
Traits are commercial plant characteristics, such as an inherent resistance to certain herbicides or an
inherent defense against certain insects.
V
Value Chain
A value chain describes the successive steps in a production process: from raw materials through
various intermediate steps, such as transportation and production, to the finished product.
BASF Report 2024 Glossary 475
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Trademarks1
Responsible Care®
Registered trademark of the European Chemical Industry Council
Sodium-sulfur batteries (NAS® batteries)
Registered trademark of NGK INSULATORS LTD.
Operation Clean Sweep®
Registered trademark of OCS from the Plastics Industry Association (PLASTICS) and the Plastics
Division of the American Chemistry Council (ACC)
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS®)
Registered trademark of the IFRS Foundation, which comprises international accounting policies for
companies, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB®)
Registered trademark of the IFRS Foundation The IASB is the independent body of the IFRS Foundation
that sets International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB™)
Registered trademark of the IFRS Foundation The ISSB is a standard-setting body that develops
sustainability-related financial reporting standards to meet the requirements of investors for sustainability
reporting.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC®)
Registered trademark of the IFRS Foundation The IFRIC is the IASB’s interpretative body that develops,
maintains and publishes IFRS.
IAS® standards
Registered trademark of the IFRS Foundation The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are
accounting standards issued by the IFRS Foundation and the International Accounting Standards Board
(IASB).
All other trademarks referred to in the BASF Report are registered trademarks of the BASF Group
(identified with the ® symbol), trademarks pending (identified with the ™ symbol), or trademarks used by
the BASF Group.
1 Trademarks are not registered/used in all countries.
BASF Report 2024 Glossary 476
About This Report Combined Management’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Further Information
Quarterly Statement Q1 2025 /
Further information
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2025
Published on March 21, 2025
You can find this and other BASF publications
May 2, 2025
online at basf.com/publications.
Half-Year Financial Report 2025
Forward-looking statements and
Jul. 30, 2025
forecasts
This report contains forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current estimates
Quarterly Statement Q3 2025
and projections of the Board of Executive Directors
and currently available information. Forward-
Oct. 29, 2025
looking statements are not guarantees of the future
developments and results outlined therein. These
are dependent on a number of factors; they involve
Publication of financial figures of BASF various risks and uncertainties; and they are based
Group for 2025 on assumptions that may not prove to be accurate.
We do not assume any obligation to update the
Feb. 27, 2026 forward-looking statements contained in this report
above and beyond the legal requirements.
»Such risk factors include in particular those discussed in
Publication of BASF Report 2025 Opportunities and Risks on pages 87 to 102 of the BASF Report
2024.
Mar. 19, 2026 »The BASF Report is available online at basf.com/report.
BASF supports the chemical industry’s global
Responsible Care initiative.
Contact
General inquiries
Phone: +49 621 60-0
Email: global.info@basf.com
Media Relations
Jens Fey, phone: +49 621 60-99123
Investor Relations
Dr. Stefanie Wettberg, phone: +49 621 60-48002
Internet
basf.com
BASF Report 2024 Additional Information 477