Sustainability report 2024
Ambitions
Contents
03 Foreword by the board of 85 Governance
management
86 Compliance
93 Political lobbying
06 Strategy and management
99 Annex
07 Bosch Group profile
09 Sustainability management 100 List of graphics and tables
15 Sustainability strategy 102 GRI content index
111 Independent auditor’s assurance report
114 About this report
23 Environment
115 Publication details
27 Climate action
42 Circular economy
48 Water
51 Other environmental impacts
55 Social
56 Bosch as an employer
72 Complying with due diligence obligations
relating to human rights and the environment
82 Responsibility to customers
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
02
Foreword
Dear readers,
In a time marked by numerous crises and fundamental
challenges, one thing must not take a back seat: our
efforts to protect the climate and environment. This is
why Bosch remains resolutely committed to greater
sustainability.
2024 was the warmest year since records began. For
the first time ever, the average global temperature was
more than 1.5 degrees Celsius higher than the pre-
industrial average. Climate change is already leading
to a loss of habitats. This trend must be stopped.
With its more than 450 locations worldwide, in 2020
Bosch was one of the first global industrial companies
to achieve carbon neutrality (scope 1 & 2).1 Compared
to 2018, the baseline year for our calculations, we save StefAn GROSCh DR. StefAn hARtunG
more than 2.7 million metric tons of CO₂ per year and
offset the remaining 0.5 million metric tons. But is that
enough?
1 For terms and details see the Environment | Climate action section.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
03
In 2018, indirect CO₂ emissions from upstream and which consists of over a hundred electrolysis cells that
downstream value chains such as transport, procure- split water into oxygen and hydrogen using electricity.
ment, and the use of Bosch products still amounted to With this innovation, we’re expanding our green tech
458 million metric tons of CO₂ (scope 3). This was portfolio and underpinning our leading position in this
where action was needed, and this is where we domain. Bosch is a pioneer in this regard – no other
focused our efforts: in the space of five years, Bosch company in Germany holds more outstanding green
succeeded in reducing CO₂ emissions in the upstream tech patents.2
and downstream value chains to 335 million metric
tons of CO₂ in 2023. In other words, we achieved a The key is not just to invent and create new things, but
reduction of 123 million metric tons of CO₂. Contribut- also to refine what already exists. More output with
ing to this were the transformation of the energy fewer resources – this is an approach that works. Last
sector, a product portfolio geared towards energy and year, we launched a rechargeable battery for profes-
resource efficiency, and mitigation technologies such sional power tools that delivers up to 70 percent
as heat pumps and electric motors. At the same time, longer runtimes than previous rechargeable battery
we are increasingly involving our suppliers in our models – all while still having the same size and
decarbonization activities. Many have committed weight. Efficiency leaps are also possible in hydraulics
themselves – with our support – to complying with the with new technology. For example, our variable-speed
Paris Climate Agreement. powertrain solutions have the potential to reduce
energy consumption by up to 80 percent compared to
Encouraged by this success, we have decided to push previous models.
our previous reduction target of 15 percent even
further. Compared to our 2018 baseline year, we now One increasingly important aspect of enhancing the
aim to cut our scope 3 emissions by 30 percent in sustainability of products and services is the develop-
absolute terms by 2030, and this independent of our ment of a circular economy. This involves reusing
goal to continuously increase Bosch’s sales revenue. components and products, consistently recycling, and
Bosch intends to grow while having as little negative reducing waste. A circular economy not only helps to
impact on the climate and environment as possible. conserve resources and make supply chains more
resilient, but also to reduce energy demand and CO₂
One example is our entry into the hydrogen generation emissions.
technology business. Here, Bosch is developing the
core component of an electrolyzer, the so-called stack, 2 Cf. Bertelsmann Stiftung, “Green Tech made in Germany: Wie zukunftsfit sind
wir?”, Gütersloh 2023.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
04
Bosch has firmly integrated these guiding principles These examples show that ecology and economy are
into its corporate thinking and actions: repair, replace, not mutually exclusive. The EU taxonomy, which
or recycle products so they can continue being used. classifies and categorizes sustainable business
Whether it’s industry and trade, energy and buildings, activities and is intended to promote environmentally
for the home or mobility, Bosch offers corresponding friendly growth, also plays a role here. New criteria are
services in almost all its areas of business. Refrigera- being set for entrepreneurial success. At Bosch, we’re
tors, washing machines, and dishwashers can be approaching this with conviction and taking our
rented through Bosch’s BlueMovement circular responsibility seriously. Climate change will not wait
business model, defective vehicle components such for us to get our act together, we must tackle it now.
as generators or steering and braking systems can be The good thing is that there’s a lot we can do – it’s
replaced using the Bosch eXchange program, and within our power to shape a future that restores the
industrial plants and machinery can be reconditioned balance between people and the environment, sup-
by Bosch Rexroth. The intention: to transform old into ported by an ambitious and innovative sustainable
new. Over the last 15 years, Bosch Rexroth has used economy.
remanufacturing to overhaul several hundred thou-
sand control units, servomotors, and electronic drive We wish you an enjoyable read and appreciate your
parts. Remanufacturing can save around 75 percent of interest.
components, and compared to buying things new,
customers can save up to 50 percent of the cost for
remanufactured components.
And that’s not all. The Power Tools division has Dr. Stefan hartung Stefan Grosch
Chairman of the board Member of the board of
established a network in which recyclable materials
of management management and director
are collected at Bosch plants, recycled externally, and of industrial relations
reused. New Bosch accessories for power tools are
made from carbide and grinding sludge, for example
drill attachments or saw blades. Carbide production
currently uses around 20 percent recycled material
from Bosch’s own sources, which reduces the demand
for the high-risk primary raw materials tungsten and
cobalt accordingly.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
05
Strategy and
management
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
06
Strategy and management
By acting in an economically, environmentally, and socially responsible
manner, we want to improve people’s quality of life and safeguard the
livelihoods of present and future generations.
Bosch Group profile
G 01
The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology
and services. It employs roughly 417,900 associates world- Sales revenue
wide (as of December 31, 2024). The company generated Bosch Group 2024 by region, in billions of euros
sales revenue of 90.3 billion euros in 2024. Its operations
are divided into four business sectors: Mobility, Industrial
Asia Pacific Europe
Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building (including other 44.5
countries, also
Technology. Universal trends such as automation, electrifi- in Africa) 90.3
cation, digitalization, and connectivity as well as an orien- 28.0
Americas
tation to sustainability are increasingly determining the
17.8
group’s business operations. Bosch’s broad footprint as a
global and diversified technology company strengthens its
innovativeness and robustness.
G 02
Bosch uses its proven expertise in sensor technology, soft- Sales revenue structure
ware, and services to offer customers cross-domain solu- Sales revenue Bosch Group 2024 by business sector
tions from a single source. At the same time, Bosch uses its
know-how in areas such as connectivity and artificial intel- Consumer Goods
ligence to develop and manufacture intelligent, user- Mobility including other
61.8% 22.8%
friendly, and sustainable products. With technology that is
Industrial Technology
7.1%
Energy and Building
Technology
8.3%
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch Group profile
07
“Invented for life,” Bosch wants to help improve quality of The company was set up in Stuttgart in 1886 by Robert
life and conserve natural resources. With its more than 450 Bosch (1861–1942) as “Workshop for Precision Mechanics
locations worldwide, the Bosch Group has been carbon- and Electrical Engineering.” The special ownership struc-
neutral overall since 2020 (scope 1 & 2). In 2024, residual ture of Robert Bosch GmbH guarantees the entrepreneurial
emissions of roughly 531,300 metric tons of CO₂ were offset independence of the Bosch Group, making it possible for
by carbon credits. Year on year, this is a decrease of roughly the company to plan over the long term and to undertake
49,600 metric tons of CO₂, or 8.5 percent.3 significant up-front investments in the safeguarding of its
future. 94 percent of the share capital of Robert Bosch
The Bosch Group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its GmbH is held by Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH, a charitable
roughly 490 subsidiary and regional companies in more foundation. The remaining shares are held by Robert Bosch
than 60 countries. Including sales and service partners, GmbH and by a corporation owned by the Bosch family. The
Bosch’s global manufacturing, engineering, and sales net- majority of voting rights are held by Robert Bosch Industrie-
work covers nearly every country in the world. Bosch’s in- treuhand KG. Further information on the organization of the
novative strength is key to the company’s further develop- Bosch Group, the activities of the business sectors, and the
ment. Bosch employs around 86,800 associates in research company’s economic situation, can be found in the current
and development at 136 locations around the globe, includ- annual report.
ing roughly 48,000 software engineers. You will find further
details on research and development at Bosch online and in
the 2024 annual report, page 67 et seq.
Bosch also supports the
United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG).
3 Scopes 1, 2, and 3 are used in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. For further details about the
Bosch Group’s carbon neutrality (scope 1 & 2), see the “Environment | Climate
action” section.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch Group profile
08
Sustainability management
To us, sustainability means striking a balance between the At Bosch, the highest technical committee for sustainability
economic, environmental, and social dimensions of our is the corporate sustainability board (CSB) under the aegis
business activities as part of responsible corporate of the chairman of the board of management of Robert
governance. Bosch GmbH and the board of management member re-
sponsible for sustainability. The Sustainability and EHS
Defined as a group-wide task within the Bosch Group, sus- corporate department is responsible for the organizational
tainability is coordinated by the Sustainability and EHS (En- and functional management of the CSB, which convenes
vironment, Health, Safety) corporate department. The busi- twice a year.
ness sectors pursue the jointly set goals on the basis of
systematic sustainability management. The contents, tasks, The CSB members are the chief financial officer of the Bosch
and related controlling are anchored in the company’s pro- Group, the board of management member responsible for
cesses. Internal company regulations define the organiza- the Mobility business sector, and the heads of the corporate
tion and responsibilities for sustainability and EHS in the departments responsible for the relevant matters: Research
Bosch Group. and Advance Engineering, Purchasing and Logistics, Real
Estate, Human Resources, Legal, Compliance, Finance, as
The board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH is re- well as Corporate Communications and Governmental Af-
sponsible for sustainability and EHS and assigns one of its fairs. The CSB also includes the executive management of
members to perform the corresponding organizational and various divisions and the management of the individual re-
supervisory duties. Goal agreements and management re- gions. Further members are included when required. The
views for all sustainability-related issues are the responsi- committee’s main tasks are to define the sustainability
bility of the chairman of the board of management and the strategy and goals for the Bosch Group, to adopt sustain-
board of management member responsible for sustainabil- ability activities, to provide transparency and decide in the
ity. For information on Robert Bosch GmbH’s board of event of conflicting objectives, to monitor implementation
manage ment and supervisory board, see the 2024 annual of the sustainability strategy and activities, and to coordi-
report, page 10 et seq. nate group-wide position papers on sustainability matters.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability management
09
G 03
The Sustainability and EHS corporate department is re-
sponsible for sustainability management, which mainly en- how sustainability is organized at Bosch
tails setting and tracking goals, designing and accompany-
ing programs, preparing concepts for further development,
Board of management
and sustainability reporting. It is accountable for gover- Goal agreements and
management review
nance in all matters concerning sustainability and EHS and
coordinates implementation of regulatory requirements
throughout the group. The Corporate Communications and
Corporate sustainability board
Governmental Affairs corporate department is responsible Strategic alignment
for sustainability communications and interaction with and control
stakeholders around the world.
Corporate departments Sustainability and EHS
The competent officers at corporate headquarters and in Governance according to area corporate department
of responsibility Coordi- Higher-level coordination
the divisions are responsible for implementing the sustain- (horizontal management) nation and governance
ability strategy worldwide and for monitoring the achieve-
ment of goals. Coordinators offer professional support to
Governance
the divisions, for example for implementing strategies and
establishing processes and internal regulations. In addi- Divisions/regions
tion, the coordinators review the effectiveness of the re- Compliance with requirements
(vertical management)
spective measures. The associates responsible in the re-
gions and at the Bosch sites worldwide are tasked with
ensuring that the relevant requirements are observed lo-
cally and that the defined framework conditions are com-
plied with by means of established processes. In parallel, Steering committees and boards
the Sustainability and EHS corporate department regularly
Sustainability at company locations (scope 1 & 2)
performs internal sustainability and EHS audits. Location-related EHS topics
Overarching sustainability (scope 3)
Overarching sustainability matters, including supply chain and products
Human rights committee
Due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
Material compliance
Material data management, substances of concern
DEI booster board
Diversity, equity, and inclusion
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability management
10
Steering committees, supported by topic-specific compe- ▶ Do: Implementing the strategy
tence centers, have been established within the company Suitable organizational and operational structures are es-
for material topics. The steering committees are made up of tablished at all organizational levels to ensure compliance
experts from various corporate departments, divisions, and with external and internal requirements, the implementa-
regions. They are responsible for the enhanced develop- tion of strategic goals, and the execution of strategic
ment of the sustainability strategy taking stakeholder in- projects.
terests into account. With the exception of the material
compliance steering committee, which generally meets ▶ Check: Reviewing implementation and effectiveness
quarterly, the steering committees meet twice a year. The effectiveness of the process is checked at least once a
year as part of a management review. The effectiveness of
Continuous improvement the achievement of strategic goals and the associated pro-
Bosch’s global sustainability management is defined in a cesses and organizational requirements are also reviewed
central process that is based on the ISO standard pro- on a regular basis. In addition to audits and management
cess definitions, especially ISO 31000. This process is reviews, we rely on the established reporting systems as
based on the concept of the PDCA cycle for continuous well as the targeted tracking of measures.
improvement.
▶ Act: Continuous improvement
▶ Plan: Defining the strategy Measures for the continuous improvement of the PDCA
Strategy development is based on risks and opportunities cycle and further development of the sustainability strat-
and takes into account the legal requirements, internal and egy are derived from elements of the previous checks,
external trends, and the results of our reporting systems, implemented, and tracked by the responsible central
audits, and management reviews. The responsible corpo- departments.
rate departments develop strategic goals and KPIs for the
Bosch Group and its organizational units with the involve-
ment of the relevant units, which are then approved by the
board of management or the responsible member of the
board of management.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability management
11
Materiality assessment ▶ Assessing the impacts, risks, and opportunities
As a leading global supplier of technology and services, In the next step, the identified IRO were assessed by the
Bosch operates in a large number of markets around the corporate departments responsible for the topics. A
world. Directly or indirectly, our operations affect the inter- standardized methodology was used as a basis, which
ests of a wide range of stakeholders. To parse out what also allows for short-term, medium-term, and long-term
these interests are and take account of them in our activi- assessments and takes both the materiality of the impact
ties, we actively seek to enter into dialogue with our stake- and the financial materiality into account.
holders (see T 01).
When assessing the materiality of impacts, the focus was on
As part of our double materiality assessment, we identified the severity, i.e., the extent, scope, and irremediability, and
the sustainability matters in 2024 that could have a signifi- the probability of occurrence of potential impacts on people
cant impact on our business, people, and the environment. and the environment. The assessment covered the entire
With this approach, we are following the requirements of value chain and included both positive and negative im-
the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) pacts. The results were classified on a scale from 0 (very
and the associated European Sustainability Reporting low) to 100 (critical), with a materiality threshold of ≥ 40.
Standards (ESRS). The assessment covers Bosch’s global
activities and the entire value chain, taking the results of For financial materiality, the financial extent and probability
our established due diligence processes and exchange of occurrence of the identified risks and opportunities were
with our stakeholders into account. It followed a four-stage assessed based on the Bosch Group’s risk management as-
process: sessment methods. Criteria included the impact on the fi-
nancial position, company performance, cash flow, and
▶ Determining the scope of topics and defining cost of capital. These results were classified on a scale
potentially material impacts, risks, and opportunities from 1 (very low) to 5 (critical). Level 4 was defined as the
The first step was adapting a predefined list of topics materiality threshold, which corresponds to a financial im-
(ESRS 1, AR 16) to Bosch’s activities and identifying the sus- pact of at least 50 million euros. For further information on
tainability matters potentially associated with material im- the analyses conducted, see the Environment and Social
pacts, risks, and opportunities (IRO). For this purpose, we sections.
also carried out qualitative and quantitative assessments of
our own activities in our value chain, taking relevant sectors
and geographical risk areas as well as typical production
processes into account.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability management
12
T 01
Overview of key stakeholder groups, forms of dialogue, and example results
Stakeholder Forms of dialogue Exchange objective Example results
groups
Associates Dialogue with associates and their Inclusion of viewpoints, experiences, Updating internal regulations,
and employee representative bodies, training and expectations improvements, and action plans,
representative programs, surveys, internal media, global initiatives and campaigns
bodies Bosch Business Dialog
Customers Customer services, training pro- Inclusion of viewpoints, experiences, Improving products and services,
grams, surveys, trade fairs, social and expectations adapting market strategies
media
Suppliers Supplier days, awards, training Responsible procurement, decarbon- Improvements and action plans to
and partners programs, assessments, dialogue as ization of our supply chain improve sustainability performance
part of industry initiatives
Investors Conference calls, analyst meetings, Identifying potential investors and Setting priorities and measures to
and investor conferences presenting financial and non- improve positioning in ESG ratings
financial key performance indica-
tors, creating transparency regarding
sustainability requirements
Associations Participation in committees and Developing industry standards, Updating internal regulations, action
working groups, initiative and asso- understanding the views of employee plans
ciation memberships representative bodies
Universities Collaborations, lectures, dialogue Developing innovations, Pilot projects
and research events, trade fairs talent acquisition
institutes
Policymakers Contact for questions from policy- Taking a stand on technical feasibility Adapting market strategies, creating
makers, involvement in committees and impact on society value, and mitigating risk through
organized by governments or minis- compliance
tries, dialogue events, one-on-one
talks
Local Local community talks, plant visits, Dealing with concerns, questions Support for local initiatives
stakeholders donations and feedback, strengthening local
initiatives
Civil society Dialogue events, answering ques- Dealing with concerns, questions Support for initiatives, collaborations
and NGOs tions, collaborations, donations and feedback, strengthening initia-
tives
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability management
13
T 02
Results of the double materiality assessment
Material from impact perspective
Pollution (e2)
Workers in the value chain (S2)
Not material
Marine resources (e3)
Biodiversity and ecosystems (e4)
Affected communities (S3)
)”tuo-edisni“(
ytilairetam
tcapmI
lacitirC
Very low Critical
Financial materiality (“outside-in”)
wol
yreV
▶ Stakeholder engagement
The results of the assessments were discussed with exter-
nal stakeholders at a round table event. Their feedback was
incorporated into the materiality assessment. Participants
included representatives from non-governmental organiza- Areas covered: e | environment S | Social G | Governance
tions, business associations, ESG rating agencies, provid-
ers of certification and auditing services, customers, and
Material from both perspectives
other business partners.
Climate change mitigation (e1)
Water (e3)
▶ Confirmation by the board of management Circular economy (e5)
The results of the double materiality assessment were re- Own workforce (S1)
Consumers and end users (S4)
viewed by the corporate sustainability board and finally ap- Business conduct (G1)
proved by its members.
Risk management
Material from financial perspective
The dimensions of the sustainability strategy are replicated
in the Bosch Group’s risk management system. Risk man- Climate change adaptation (e1)
agement encompasses the entire company, including all
essential operations, functions, divisions, and business
sectors. The Bosch Group’s risk management system is
based on the ISO 31000 and COSO III (ERM) standards, as
well as IDW PS 340. It comprises the systematic detection
and tracking of relevant risks and, where necessary, identifi-
cation and monitoring of measures to manage these risks. In
this context, the corporate coordinating office for the risk
management system is responsible for continuously refin- The topics inside the quadrants are listed according to their mention in the ESRS, so conclusions cannot be drawn from the
order with regard to the relevance of the individual topics. The aggregated presentation of the topics is based on an
ing the system. For further information and a description of
assessment at the level of the sub-topics.
material risks, see the 2024 annual report, page 79 et seq.
The material antitrust and legal risks are also described
there.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability management
14
Sustainability strategy
We are convinced that sustainability can make a significant We are committed to the principle of legality and regard re-
contribution to Bosch achieving its growth objectives. We spect for social values and standards to be essential for the
therefore continually strive to create win-win situations by success of the company. Topics such as climate action, cir-
achieving economic success while enhancing sustainability cular economy, and water offer further potential to stand
at the same time. Our vision for sustainability with its six di- out positively from the competition. Examples of this are
mensions defines the strategic focal points in this respect. energy-efficient or water-conserving products as well as the
Each of these is specified and continually enhanced by ref- use of recycled materials in production. This is how our “In-
erence to two focus activities, where appropriate, with vented for life” mission statement becomes a reality: Bosch
clearly defined, medium-term targets. We adjusted the vi- products aim to fascinate, improve quality of life, and help
sion based on the results of our new double materiality as- conserve natural resources.
sessment in 2024. The two topics “Employer of choice” and
“Diversity, equity, and inclusion” were integrated into the The KPIs that we collect in the course of preparing for the
new “People” dimension and the aspect of “Pollution” was EU taxonomy (sales revenue, capital expenditure, operating
included in the “Health” dimension. We have also anchored expenses) correlate with non-financial indicators such as
the two topics of “Business ethics” and “Privacy” in the vi- CO emissions in product use. Bosch is obliged to report in
2
sion in the overarching “Governance” dimension (see G 04). accordance with the EU taxonomy. We are currently prepar-
ing intensively for this and are already using the knowledge
Our sustainability activities consider the entire value chain gained strategically. The transparency of the EU taxonomy
– from the procurement of materials and goods through pro- enables us to evaluate our company’s transformation prog-
duction at Bosch locations to the product use phase and ress toward the EU environmental targets and to manage
beyond (“end of life”). the development of our portfolio using corresponding KPIs.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
15
G 04
target vision: “new Dimensions”
Our ambition: By acting in an economically, environmentally, and socially responsible manner, we want to
improve people’s quality of life and safeguard the livelihoods of present and future generations.
Climate action Water
1 | Reducing CO emissions 1 | Water scarcity
2
2 | energy efficiency and renewable 2 | Water quality
energies
For Bosch, water is a resource to be
It is Bosch’s ambition to be a climate treated sparingly. Regions in which
action pioneer – advancing the expansion water is scarce are a special concern.
of renewables and striving continuously
for energy efficiency.
Health Circular economy
1 | Occupational health and safety 1 | Materials efficiency
New Dimensions
2 | Pollution and substances of concern 2 | Second life
Sustainability
Bosch contributes to people’s health Bosch is reducing its ecological
– with innovative products and services footprint and striving to create social
and by avoiding harm to people and the benefit. In this endeavor, Bosch takes
environment in its own production its lead from the circular economy
processes. principle.
Human rights People
1 | Responsibility 1 | employer of choice
2 | transparency 2 | Diversity, equity, and inclusion
Bosch takes on responsibility and is Governance Attractive working conditions qualify
sensitive to human rights being 1 | Business ethics Bosch as an employer of choice.
respected – along the entire value 2 | Privacy Diversity, equity, and inclusion are key
chain. to long term success in business.
Compliance with the principle of
legality as well as responsible and
fair business practices are part of
the Bosch values and a top priority
for our company.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
16
T 03
Goals and goal achievement
Dimension Goals 2024 status UN SDG
Climate It is Bosch’s ambition to be a climate action pioneer – advancing the expansion of renewables and striving continuously for energy
action efficiency.
Reducing CO₂ emissions With its more than 450 locations worldwide, the Bosch Group has been carbon-neutral overall since 2020
Operating carbon neutral in scopes (scope 1 & 2).4 Four levers were used to achieve carbon neutrality: increasing energy efficiency, generating our
1 and 2 and continuously improving own energy from renewable sources (new clean power), purchasing electricity from renewable sources (green
the mix of measures by 2030 electricity), and – as the last resort – offsetting residual CO₂ emissions with carbon credits. In 2024, residual
emissions of roughly 531,300 metric tons of CO₂ were offset by carbon credits. This represents a decrease of
8.5 percent on the prior year’s level (see the “Environment | Climate action” section).
Lowering absolute scope 3 CO₂ Since 2018, we have cut our scope 3 emissions by around 27 percent, down to 335 million metric tons of CO₂
emissions by 30 percent by 2030 in 2023. In this process, we are focusing on the categories that make up around 98 percent of our scope 3
(baseline year 2018) emissions: upstream emissions in the Bosch value chain primarily concern purchased goods and services as
well as logistics. Downstream emissions are mainly caused by the use of our products (see the “Environment |
Climate action” section).
Energy efficiency and renewable Since 2019, we have initiated over 7,000 energy-efficiency projects worldwide, with roughly 1,100 new
energies projects added in 2024 alone. With them, we have so far captured savings potential of 1,144 GWh in total.
Saving 1.7 TWh through increased This corresponds to a goal achievement level of 67 percent (see the “Environment | Climate action” section).
energy efficiency by 2030
Increasing own renewable genera- In 2024, we generated 197 GWh of energy from renewable sources in-house at our company locations. Accord-
tion at our sites to 400 GWh and ingly, we have already reached 49 percent of our target value. In addition, around 99.5 percent of the Bosch
100 percent green electricity by Group’s global electricity demand was covered by green electricity (electricity purchased from renewable
2030 sources) (see the “Environment | Climate action” section).
Water For Bosch, water is a resource to be treated sparingly. Regions in which water is scarce are a special concern.
Water scarcity Since 2019, we have launched more than 260 projects and reduced water withdrawal by 28.5 percent com-
Reducing absolute water with- pared with 2017 at company locations in regions with water scarcity. The company locations were identified
drawal at company locations in using the Water Risk Filter of the World Wildlife Fund for Nature (see the “Environment | Water” section).
regions with water scarcity by
25 percent by 2025
Water quality In 2024, Bosch’s wastewater volume decreased to 15.25 million m³ (prior year: 15.46 million m3). We have
Improving the quality of wastewater established standard processes in the company for monitoring local wastewater quality requirements and
flows standards (see the “Environment | Other environmental impacts” section).
4 Scopes 1, 2, and 3 are used here in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We have taken into account the effects of CO₂ and of other greenhouse gases,
as well as climate-relevant substances, to the extent that these are of relevance for the analysis. To enable comparability between the climate impact of the various greenhouse gases and substances of
relevance for the climate, emissions are presented in CO₂ equivalents. For ease of reading, we use the terms CO₂ and CO₂ equivalents synonymously.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
17
Dimension Goals 2024 status UN SDG
Circular Bosch is reducing its ecological footprint and striving to create social benefit. In this endeavor, Bosch takes its lead from the
economy circular economy principle.
Materials efficiency For years, materials efficiency has been a fixed criterion in the Bosch product development process, where it is
Improving materials efficiency anchored in our Design for Environment (DfE) principle (see the “Environment | Circular economy” section).
Second life Our activities range from reusing products and their components to repairs and right through to remanufactur-
Extending product life cycles and ing – in each case with the objective of extending product and component life cycles. The individual divisions
reusing materials and components of Bosch each have their own objectives in this regard, depending on market and product-specific framework
conditions (see the “Environment | Circular economy” section).
People Attractive working conditions qualify Bosch as an employer of choice. Diversity, equity, and inclusion are key to long term success in
business.
Employer of choice Bosch supports its associates in striking a balance between their individual career goals, personal life-style,
Attractive working conditions and and private goals. We offer career opportunities for various positions in diverse fields of work at Bosch (see
recruitment of talent for growth the “Social | Bosch as an employer”section).
areas
Diversity, equity, and inclusion Globally, the proportion of female executives rose to 20.4 percent in 2024 (prior year: 20.0 percent) across all
Ensuring equitable opportunities management levels (see the “Social | Bosch as an employer” section).
and increasing the proportion of
female executives to 25 percent by
2030
Human Bosch takes on responsibility and is sensitive to human rights being respected – along the entire value chain.
rights
Responsibility We contribute to improving human rights conditions worldwide by implementing due diligence obligations
Ensuring human rights are concerning human rights in our operational processes. At the same time, we actively demand respect for
re spected along the value chain human rights in our global supply chains as well and take appropriate remedial action in the case of violations
(see the “Social | Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment”
section).
Transparency By the end of 2024, we had assessed around 82 percent of our relevant direct materials suppliers (excluding
Increasing transparency about BSH Hausgeräte GmbH) for compliance with our requirements. We also assessed 77 percent of indirect mate-
compliance with environmental and rials suppliers who are particularly relevant in terms of country risk and field of materials risk (see the “Social |
social standards Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment” section).
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
18
Dimension Goals 2024 status UN SDG
Health Bosch contributes to people’s health – with innovative products and services and by avoiding harm to people and the environment in its
own production processes.
Occupational health and safety The accident rate was reduced to 1.46 accidents per one million hours worked (prior year: 1.49)
Reducing the accident rate to 1.45 (see the “Social | Bosch as an employer” section).
accidents per 1 million hours
worked or less by 2025
Pollution and substances Bosch handles substances of concern responsibly. To efficiently manage prohibitions and restrictions on
of concern materials, we are continuously upgrading our IT-based Material Data Management for Compliance and
Continuously upgrading materials Sustainability (MaCS) system (see the “Environment | Other environmental impacts” section).
data management
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
19
Sustainability culture launch in 2014, around 34,200 executives with and without
The Bosch value “responsibility and sustainability” has al- team management responsibilities have already completed
ways characterized our entrepreneurial activity and is an in- the course.
tegral part of our mission statement “Be#LikeABosch”. For
Bosch, it is key to involve as many associates as possible in ▶ Sustainability days at Bosch locations worldwide
sustainability management. Each and every one at Bosch is The “Word Tour of Sustainability” live stream event has
called upon to contribute and advance sustainability in their been held annually since 2023. The one-day event in 2024
individual sphere of influence. The aim is for sustainability focused on a total of 35 sustainability initiatives, activities,
to become a shared mindset within the company – shoul- and projects, which were promoted by teams from around
dered by each associate through their conduct. Specific im- the globe. Apart from project presentations and information
petus is provided in seven action areas (see G 05). on Bosch’s sustainability strategy, a special item featured
on the agenda was the announcement of the winning teams
The following measures are examples of our activities in of the “Sustainability, Environment, Health, and Safety
2024: Awards.” The award honors outstanding projects each year
in the categories “CO₂ and energy efficiency,” “resource ef-
▶ Sustainability multipliers ficiency,” “occupational safety,” “sustainable products,” and
At Bosch, executives are role models and, as such, multipli- “sustainability culture.” The 278 applications submitted re-
ers for sustainability. They are required to attend web-based flect the high level of motivation among associates to con-
training to familiarize themselves with the sustainability tribute to greater sustainability.
strategy and the targets set. Since the training program’s
G 05
Seven action areas for embedding sustainability culture
Make Engage in active Support internal Recognize and Link sustainability Create inspiring Keep an open
management internal change pioneers value to associates’ events within the dialogue with
“walk the talk” communication and facilitators commitment private lives company associates
Graphic based on: Network for
about
Business Sustainability (2010) and
sustainability
Majka Baur (2016)
Providing impetus for associates’ personal commitment
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
20
Events took place again at various locations in 2024 to put Social involvement
the spotlight on the topic of sustainability in the company. We see ourselves as a corporate citizen and engage actively
For example, Bosch Japan hosted a sustainability week in in society, also beyond the scope of our own business activi-
September during which around 1,000 associates took the ties. Through our charitable donations, for example, we
opportunity to find out about sustainability at Bosch by chiefly support initiatives in the following areas:
taking part in 13 online sessions and several on-site
workshops. ▶ Living sustainably:
Citizen projects promoting climate action in everyday life
Commitment and cooperation
We want to make a relevant contribution to overcoming ▶ Education for the high-tech world:
global social challenges, which is why we are involved in Projects to develop socially disadvantaged children and
numerous initiatives. For instance, Robert Bosch GmbH young people’s skills for technological change
has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact
since 2004 and is committed to its globally applicable ▶ Social cohesion:
principles concerning human rights, labor standards, en- Projects strengthening democracy and tolerance, espe-
vironmental protection, and anti-corruption. With this cially at Bosch sites
publication, we fulfill the related requirement to report on
relevant progress we made in 2024 in these areas. Bosch is ▶ Emergency aid in disaster situations:
also a founding member of UN Global Compact Netzwerk Donations to aid organizations and people on the ground,
Deutschland e.V. especially when catchment areas around Bosch sites are
affected
We are active in a large number of other sustainability-
related initiatives though memberships – including Our social involvement in the form of donations is handled
Transparency International Deutschland e.V. which we by the operating units in the countries in question. In the
have been supporting as a corporate member since 1995. reporting year, the Bosch Group donated 25.8 million euros
In addition, we are active on the executive board of econ- worldwide (prior year: 26.6 million euros) to charitable
sense – Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der Deutschen causes, including donations in kind. Internal company regu-
Wirtschaft e.V. (Forum for Sustainable Development of lations set out corresponding principles, assessment crite-
German Business). ria, and responsibilities. Depending on the amount involved,
either the management of the operating units or the mem-
Bosch also supports the United Nations Sustainable Devel- bers of Robert Bosch GmbH’s board of management decide
opment Goals (SDG) adopted in 2015. Accordingly, we regu- how the funds raised should be spent. All donation transac-
larly benchmark our sustainability activities against the tions must be documented in writing. In addition, the people
17 SDG (see T 03).
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
21
G 06
responsible keep an annual ledger of donations that is ac-
cessible for audit purposes. At a minimum, this ledger must Bosch’s non-profit institutions
indicate the group of recipients and the amount of the dona-
tion, along with the reasons for the donation and the date on
which confirmation of receipt was received.
One focus of global donation activities in 2024 was on emer-
gency aid in the event of a disaster, in particular aid for the
victims of the catastrophic floods in Spain in the fall. Robert
Bosch GmbH donated 500,000 euros to the German Red
Cross to help deal with the consequences of the flood. A
further donation of 50,000 euros was made by Bosch in
Spain directly to the particularly hard-hit communities. In
addition, support packages were provided by various Bosch
divisions to alleviate the situation of those affected in the
flooded areas.
The U.S.: Romania: China:
Bosch is not only financially active at many of its locations, Bosch Fundaţia Bosch Bosch China
but also through the volunteer work of its associates locally. Community Romania Charity Center
Fund
In some countries, dedicated non-profit institutions engage
in corporate social responsibility activities. Such institu- Mexico: Brazil: India:
Fundación Robert Instituto Robert Bosch Bosch India
tions are usually active in the vicinity of company locations Bosch México Foundation
and concentrate on country-specific priorities.
As an independent, not-for-profit foundation, Robert Bosch
Stiftung GmbH demonstrates its commitment to society
worldwide by supporting or implementing innovative and
lighthouse projects.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Sustainability strategy
22
Environment 4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
23
Environment
Bosch’s activities should have as little impact on the environment as possible.
We are working to fulfil this aspiration with a Group-wide environmental
management system and specific targets. In particular, we want to use
targeted measures to protect the climate, save water, especially where it is
scarce, and strengthen the circular economy.
Organization and responsibilities In general, we intend to have all relevant locations6 operat- T 04
Internal company regulations define the principles and re- ing with certified environmental management systems. In environmental and energy
quirements for sustainability and EHS in the Bosch Group total, 97 percent of our relevant manufacturing and develop- management systems
and specify the organization and responsibilities. Occupa- ment locations operate an environmental management sys- Bosch Group 2024
tional safety and environmental protection policy is framed tem, which in most cases (98 percent) is certified according
Production locations and
in the publicly accessible Guidelines of Work Safety and to the ISO 14001 standard. Similarly, 90 percent of the en-
development locations6 252
Environmental Protection. We have also clearly formulated ergy management systems used are certified to ISO 50001
Environmental manage-
our expectations of our business partners in corresponding (also see T 04). ment system implemented
codes (also see the “Social” section). according to ISO 14001 244
Bosch has clearly defined environmental criteria for the de- Environmental manage-
ment system certified
The Sustainability and EHS corporate department manages sign, planning, and acquisition or construction of facilities,
according to ISO 14001 240
environmental protection with the help of a Group-wide machinery, and manufacturing equipment, for example with
Energy management
process that follows the PDCA cycle5. This approach ex- regard to energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy system implemented
tends across the entire value chain and covers all material sources. These criteria also play a role in the decision-mak- according to ISO 50001 69
environmental issues for Bosch as well as the underlying ing process when choosing new company locations. Energy management
system certified according
impacts, risks, and opportunities (see the “Strategy and
to ISO 50001 62
management” section). Audits on environmental topics
Regular briefings, workshops, and internal audits are held 6 The following applies to information on
environmental and energy management
at the company locations on environmental topics in order
systems: Production locations and
to verify compliance with requirements. Locations are se- development locations (with material
lected based on risks or specific events, while their size, responsibility) with more than 50 associates
and that have been included in the consoli-
measured by headcount or the proportion of resources con- dated group for more than three years.
sumed in the Group, also plays a role. Audit findings are
5 The PDCA cycle (Plan, Do, Check, Act) is a fundamental concept for continuous
improvement in an organization.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
24
documented in Bosch’s database. As a result, it is also pos- uniform sustainability methodology enables
sible to track corrective actions in the event of deviations. systematic control
Any deviations detected, their causes, and improvement The environmental dimensions of our target vision are un-
opportunities identified are taken into account in the follow- derpinned by a standardized logic. This is characterized by
ing year’s audit program. The results of the analyses are also three core levers: increasing efficiency, purchasing re-
considered in determining the content and focus of our envi- sources from renewable sources, and changing the technol-
ronmental protection campaigns. ogy used. The three core levers can be applied to all value
creation stages – from purchasing materials and goods (up-
At production locations, relevant environmental issues are stream) to subsequent processing at our plants (own opera-
audited on a risk basis by company headquarters as part of tions) through to use of the products by our customers
corporate audits. The auditors have in-depth knowledge of (downstream). In this way, we create transparency with re-
ISO 19011 audit methodologies as well as external and inter- gard to the impact of the different measures, we show the
nal EHS requirements. In 2024, the EHS audit team per- relationships and interactions between the various influ-
formed a total of 75 corporate audits. Further audits are encing factors, and we thus provide the basis for in-depth
usually carried out every three years, for example as part of scenarios in order to capture and control the effects of de-
ISO certifications. cisions in their entirety. This also reveals the additional
Competence development and training
G 07
In training, we promote the methodological and technical
competence of our associates, thereby creating the condi- Sustainability methodology
tions for safe and environmentally compatible work pro- Core levers for improving sustainability performance along the value chain
cesses. We therefore ensure that those responsible for
en vironmental protection, for instance, are specifically fa-
miliarized with the relevant internal regulations and stan-
dards in training programs that have been standardized
worldwide. In supplementary training modules, we address Upstream Own operations Downstream
the specific requirements of individual operating units, lo-
cations, and regions. In addition, we also train and brief as-
Core lever 1: Increased efficiency in the use of resources
sociates of external companies and visitors to our locations
on health, safety, and environmental protection at Bosch.
Core lever 2: Use of resources from renewable sources
Core lever 3: Changes in technology for sustainable transformation
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
25
differentiation potential of sustainability topics that will be The assessments are based on the guidelines for nature-re-
of particular importance to Bosch in the future – as illus- lated target setting by the Science Based Targets Network
trated by trend and market analyses. (SBTN) and the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Dis-
closures (TNFD). After an initial screening using the SBTN
environmental risk analyses Materiality Screening Tool (V1.1), we identified climate
As part of our internal environmental impact and risk analy- change, water use, and pollution as the material negative
ses, we assess all reportable locations7 with regard to the environmental impacts for Bosch.
drivers of biodiversity loss and ecosystem change defined
by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodi- We use the MunichRe Risk Suite for the climate-related as-
versity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES). These include im- sessment. For our water, pollution, and biodiversity-related
pacts related to climate change, environmental pollution, assessments, we rely on geodata from the WWF Water Risk
the use and exploitation of natural resources, changes in Filter, the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter and the Integrated
land use, and the spread of invasive species. Biodiversity Assessment Tool.
Our approach to managing environmental impacts and risks In addition, the findings from the environmental risk analy-
is to act early through an proactive assessment. Our mea- ses are incorporated into our materiality assessment (see
sures are based on data-driven findings and tailored to loca- the “Strategy and management” section) and into the risk
tion-specific conditions, and the corresponding risks. We assessments for the implementation of corporate due dili-
distinguish between measures to mitigate impacts (mitiga- gence obligations (see the “Social” section).
tion) and activities for adapting the company to changed
framework conditions (adaptation). We include our prod-
ucts in these considerations.
7 Reportable locations are all production locations and development locations
(with material responsibility) with more than 50 associates as well as other
sites with more than 100 associates.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
26
Climate action
Opportunities and risks of climate change Identified risks are recorded in the Bosch Group’s Enter-
Counteracting climate change is a task for society as a prise Risk Management and, if necessary, mitigated with
whole. We see this not only as an obligation for our com- appropriate measures or internal controls (see also the
pany, but also as an opportunity to contribute to protecting “Strategy and management” section). The member of the
the climate with innovative solutions and technologies. board of management responsible for sustainability has ul-
Bosch’s growing self-sufficiency and energy efficiency will timate responsibility for managing the identified risks and
also reduce its dependence on volatile energy markets and, opportunities of climate change.
in turn, its exposure to price fluctuation risks.
The assessment is based on the scenarios of the Interna-
With the annual assessment of the risks and opportunities tional Energy Agency (IEA NZE 2050), the Intergovernmen-
that climate change poses for Bosch, we are guided by the tal Panel on Climate Change (RCP3.4/SSP2, RCP8.5/SSP5),
specifications of the Task Force on Climate-related Finan- and the energy scenarios of the Bosch Research and Ad-
cial Disclosures (TCFD) to help us identify transitory and vance Engineering corporate sector. A central role in this
physical risks in particular. Transitory risks in the divisions context is played by the internal climate change report:
are taken into account in short-, medium- and long-term prepared by our experts every two years, it highlights funda-
time horizons. The assessment of physical risks covers all mental climate change developments and their significance
reportable locations as well as the time horizons present for our company and for society.
day, 2030, 2050 and, for individual indicators, 2100.
The risks posed by climate change include water scarcity
In addition to the geographical location and probability of and extreme weather events, which are occurring with in-
occurrence, the systematic analysis also takes into account creasing frequency and causing ever greater damage. They
the duration and financial impact of the risks. The focus is can jeopardize production at our locations and the stability
on both acute risks (such as those related to flooding) and of the supply chain, and influence the cost of insurance
permanent climate risks (such as those that arise on ac- cover against extreme weather events. Climate aspects also
count of global warming). In the supply chain, the focus is play a role in the choice of company locations. This is some-
on climate risks that can arise in connection with the four thing that demands Bosch’s adaptability, for example, with
focus materials steel, aluminum, copper, and plastics. respect to water and energy supply. To manage the respec-
tive risks and opportunities, the individual divisions use the
results of the risk assessment for market forecasts and in-
corporate them in specific plans.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
27
Other risks include the shortage of raw materials and We address these challenges with our climate action strat-
changes in the regulatory framework, such as bans on cer- egy and systematic research and development. At the same
tain technologies or the tightening of CO₂ emissions stan- time, we are convinced that we must work together if we are
dards, for example, for vehicles. The increasing diversity of to successfully counter the effects of climate change. That
customer preferences, which can change rapidly – often in is why we take an active role in the relevant associations and
response to political decisions, are also important in this committees (see the “Governance” section).
context. Increasingly, the focus is also on the processes up-
stream of our production and the use of materials. For ex- Climate action strategy
ample, we are receiving more inquiries about the proportion Bosch wants to make a contribution to climate action, an
of green electricity (electricity purchased from renewable aspiration it has anchored in its sustainability vision. We
sources) in our energy mix or recycled materials (see also support the United Nations 2015 Paris Agreement on cli-
the “Circular economy” section). mate action and the goal formulated therein of limiting
G 08
Sustainability methodology, focus on climate action
Measures for improving sustainability performance along the value chain
Upstream Own operations Downstream
Increased efficiency General target agreements Energy efficiency Energy efficiency of products
Resources from In-house energy generation
renewable sources General target agreements, from renewable sources Transformation of product
specific agreements for focus portfolio toward renewable
materials energy sources
Switching to electricity from
Changes in technology renewable sources
Carbon offsets
Range of topics Scope 3, upstream: Scope 1 & 2: Scope 3, downstream:
Purchased goods and Carbon neutrality Product use
services
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
28
global warming to as close to 1.5 degrees Celsius as possi- The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) has endorsed
ble. With carbon neutrality (scope 1 & 2)8, we are making a our climate targets for the 1.5 degree pathway.9 This means
measurable contribution to this goal. that Bosch has science-based climate targets for the entire
value chain – from purchasing to the product use phase. Our
As early as 2020, the Bosch Group with its more than targets are based on an internal analysis of potential, which
450 locations worldwide has been carbon neutral overall we have compared with SBTi’s cross-sector ambition.
(scope 1 & 2). Four levers were used to achieve carbon neu-
trality: increasing energy efficiency, generating our own
energy from renewable sources (new clean power), pur-
T 05
chasing electricity from renewable sources (green electric-
ity), and – as the last resort – using carbon credits to offset energy demand
residual CO₂ emissions. In 2024, residual emissions of Bosch Group 2022–2024, in GWh
roughly 531,300 metric tons of CO₂ were offset by carbon 2022 2023  2024
T 06
credits.
Bosch Group 7,696 7,537 7,517
Greenhouse gas emissions
Natural gas 1,325 1,132 1,085
At the same time, we also want to reduce emissions pro- Bosch Group 2022–2024, in 1,000 metric tons of COe
Heating oil 49 57 81 2
duced outside Bosch’s direct sphere of influence (scope 3), 2022 2023  2024
LPG 34 36 35
for example at suppliers, in logistics, or when our products
Bosch Group with
Coke/coal 100 101 36
are used. Our aim is to reduce these upstream and down- carbon offsets 0 0 0
Renewable energy 128 156 318
stream emissions by 30 percent in absolute terms by 2030, Carbon offsets 717 581 531
Other (inter alia gaso-
compared with the baseline year 2018 – irrespective of our Bosch Group 717 581 531
line, diesel) 482 512 531
company’s growth. Manufacturing 328 295 269
Direct energy
(own combustion) 2,118 1,993 2,086 Vehicle fleet 117 129 135
Electricity 5,334 5,323 5,231 Volatile GHG 78 77 57
thereof green Scope 1 523 501 460
electricity 5,049 5,250 5,206
Electricity 119 15 9
District heat, steam,
District heat, steam,
8 Scopes 1, 2, and 3 are used here in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas cooling energy 244 221 200
cooling energy 75 65 63
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We have taken into
Indirect energy
account the effects of CO₂ and of other greenhouse gases, as well as Scope 2 194 80 71
(purchased) 5,578 5,544 5,431
climate-relevant substances, to the extent that these are of relevance for the
analysis. To enable comparability between the climate impact of the various
greenhouse gases and substances of relevance for the climate, emissions are
energy intensity emissions intensity
presented in CO₂ equivalents. For ease of reading, we use the terms CO₂ and
CO₂ equivalents synonymously. in MWh/million euros of sales revenue in metric tons/million euros of sales revenue, without
9 i R n o c b re e a rt s e B d o s th c e h e G x m is b ti H n ’ g s s e c n o t p ry e i 3 n r t e h d e u S c B ti T o i n ’s t t a a r r g g e e t t t d o a 3 s 0 h % bo in a r a d b . s In o l 2 u 0 te 2 4 te , r B m o s s ch 2022 2023  2024 carbon offsets 2022 2023  2024
(compared with the baseline year 2018) and initiated a validation of such new
Bosch Group 87.3 82.3 83.2 Bosch Group 8.13 6.34 5.88
target by the SBTi. This process had not been completed before publication of
the report; the target dashboard will be updated after the confirmation.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
29
four levers for carbon neutrality (scope 1 & 2) Introduction of a building management system in Łódź
In 2024 also, we continued to improve the mix of levers by
A building management system was introduced at the Polish site in Łódź over a period of two
increasing energy efficiency, generating our own energy
years, which centrally controls the heating, ventilation systems, exhaust fans, lighting, and boiler
from renewable sources, and purchasing green electricity.
rooms. Automatic settings and the option of remote control lead to improved overall manage-
This is reflected in the further reduction of CO₂ emissions to ment and shorter response times in the event of failures. The building management system has
be offset. achieved savings of around 4,200 MWh per year. This corresponds to a 31 percent reduction in
heating energy consumption and a 6 percent reduction in electricity consumption in non-produc-
Around 73 percent of total energy demand stems from re- tive processes compared to consumption in 2022.
newable energy sources including purchased green elec-
tricity (prior year: 72 percent). While the consumption of Use of waste heat in Blaichach
purchased energy (scope 2) accounts for most of our energy At the German site in Blaichach, waste heat from compressed air, cold water and cooling water
demand, the majority of CO₂ emissions are generated by production is used to generate heat. When the project is completed at the end of 2025,
stationary combustion, primarily through heat generation natural gas consumption for heat generation is expected to be reduced by 92 percent compared
(scope 1). Bosch requires energy primarily in the form of to 2021. This measure was already effective in 2024 and reduced natural gas consumption by
electrical power for manufacturing plants and machinery, 80 percent compared to 2021.
and in the form of thermal energy to heat and air-condition
buildings and to operate foundry furnaces.
We have already achieved roughly 67 percent of our energy
Lever 1: Energy efficiency efficiency target today: since 2019, we have initiated more
By 2030, we want to substantially increase our energy effi- than 7,000 projects worldwide, capturing savings potential
ciency and implement measures at our company locations of 1,144 GWh. In 2024 alone, more than 1,100 new projects
with savings potential totaling 1.7 terawatt-hours (TWh). An with savings potential of 160 GWh were introduced.
annual investment budget has been available for this pur-
pose since 2019. Overall, Bosch plans to invest one billion
G 09
euros in increasing energy efficiency by 2030. Since 2022,
we have been using part of this budget to fund the reduction Goal achievement for energy efficiency
of CO₂ emissions, such as the electrification of the heat sup- Savings potential captured with measures to
ply or the use of district heating. In order to calculate the increase energy efficiency
amortization rate of the individual measures, an internal
CO₂ price is used, which is based on the price of emission
2030 target By 2023
allowances in the European Emissions Trading System (EU
1,700 GWh 984 GWh
67
ETS). %
achieved
2024
160 GWh
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
30
Lever 2: New clean power  Further increase in the use of solar power
By 2030, we want to generate 400 GWh of the annual energy
A large number of projects contributed to the further expansion of our PV capacities in 2024.
demand in-house at our company locations from renewable
In addition to expanding existing facilities, new facilities were also built at various locations.
sources. We are placing particular emphasis here on photo-
For example, a facility with around 811 kW was built at the Michalovce site in Slovakia, which peak
voltaics (PV). A total of 139 Bosch sites were already using
will cover around 7 percent of local annual electricity demand in future. A facility with a similar
solar power for their energy supply at the end of 2024. We output (750 kW ) went into operation at the Spanish site in La Cartuja Baja. In future, it will
peak
also operate a hydroelectric power station at our site in contribute to covering around 14 percent of annual electricity demand. A 1 MW photovoltaic
peak
Blaichach, Germany. system was installed at the Tochigi site in Japan, where it will cover around 5 percent of annual
electricity demand in future.10
In total, we generated around 197 GWh of renewable energy
10 Calculations based on electricity consumption in 2024.
at Bosch in 2024, which means that as of year-end we have
already achieved 49 percent of the target. Locations in
China accounted for around 31 percent of the volume of re- Lever 3: Green electricity 
newable energy generated at Bosch, followed by Germany Bosch has concentrated on purchasing green electricity11
(25 percent), and India (18 percent). from existing facilities and has been greatly expanding its
purchase volume from green electricity with corresponding
G 10 G 11
guarantees of origin since 2019. Around 99.5 percent of the
Goal achievement for new clean power Bosch Group’s global electricity demand was already cov- Goal achievement for green
In-house energy generation from photovoltaics and ered using green electricity in 2024. We aim to exclusively electricity
hydroelectric power source green electricity for the whole company by 2030. Global electricity demand covered by
green electricity in 2024
2030
At the same time, we have been involved in long-term agree-
target
2030 By 2023
ments with our energy suppliers (Power Purchasing Agree- 100%
target 149 GWh
400 GWh 49 ments, PPAs) since 2020 and concluded a new agreement in
%
Germany in 2024. All told, Bosch purchased around 374 GWh
achieved
99.5
in 2024 through long-term power purchasing agreements.
2024 % achieved
48 GWh
11 The following definition of green electricity applies both to purchase through electricity supply contracts in accordance with
EU Directive 2018/2001 (RED ii) and its implementation in national legislation as well as through the direct procurement of
guarantees of origin (GOs), PPAs, and EACs (e.g. RECs or I-RECs). Green electricity generation from the following sources is
permitted: wind power, hydropower, photovoltaics, geothermal energy, tidal technology, biomass from sustainable forestry or
agriculture in accordance with national management practices or certifications such as RED ii Article 29 (2) to (7) and certifica-
tions for the EU, and in other countries in accordance with the respective national regulations, as well as from biogas and landfill
gas, including from organic waste. Electricity from nuclear power or waste incineration is not considered an energy from
renewable sources.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
31
Lever 4: Carbon offsets  around 531,300 metric tons of CO₂ in the reporting year.
At present, we use carbon offsets to compensate for resid- Year on year, this is a decrease of roughly 49,600 metric tons
ual CO₂ emissions, such as those from combustion pro- of CO₂, or 8.5 percent (see T 06).
cesses (heating, process heat). In addition, we refer to car-
bon offsets to compensate for electricity sourced in When selecting carbon offset projects, we are guided by in-
countries with only limited availability of green electricity. ternationally recognized and independent certifications,
such as the Gold Standard. In the future we want to focus
As we make progress with levers 1 to 3, we want to further our carbon offset measures even more intensively on na-
reduce the share that we offset to achieve carbon neutrality ture-based removals. The relevant projects involve seques-
(scope 1 & 2) to no more than 15 percent by 2030 (baseline tering CO₂ in biomass, for example by afforestation.
year 2018). In 2024, we came another step closer to achiev-
ing this target – especially as a result of decarbonizing our Bosch calculates the emissions it needs to offset using the
energy supply further and increasing energy efficiency at standards of the International Energy Agency (IEA, Emis-
our locations. We cut the volume of emissions to be offset to sion Factors 2022), and the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC). In 2020, we switched to a market-
based presentation. Previously, we had used the location-
based approach (up to and including 2019). In the calcula-
G 12
tion, we focus on the greenhouse gas CO₂ as well as on
Climate action at Bosch – the path to 2030 emitted process gases and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). An
CO₂ emissions (scope 1 & 2) in millions of metric tons internal analysis has shown that Bosch does not produce or
emit any other greenhouse gases to any material extent that
3.3 0.9 0.9 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.5 would be subject to disclosure requirements. This also ap-
plies to greenhouse gas emissions that are locked in prod-
ucts or key assets.
2018 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2030
SBTi goal
Emissions without carbon offsets
Carbon offsets
Emissions avoided compared with the baseline year 2018
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
32
Outlook: Climate action strategy extends company locations at the discretion of the respective divi-
beyond 2030 sions and the degree to which goals are achieved is tracked
Bosch has set itself specific climate action targets for 2030, centrally. On this basis, those responsible at the divisions
but is also looking beyond that date. Since Bosch is aiming and company locations make decisions to implement mea-
to use green electricity exclusively by then, the relevant po- sures to improve energy efficiency or to initiate projects to
tential must be leveraged in particular through changes in generate their own energy.
technology – such as in the area of mobility and heating of
buildings. In addition, increases in energy efficiency and the As the availability and quality of green electricity and the
measures pursued with the “New clean power” lever can legal conditions for the expansion of renewables differ be-
deliver further climate action improvements. An analysis of tween countries, the regional organizations are responsi-
more than 400 locations in 2023 showed that further ad- ble for green electricity and new clean power projects.
vances in climate action can still be achieved beyond 2030 Carbon offsets are regulated centrally to ensure the qual-
– relevant projects are being evaluated. However, the fact ity of projects. The sites themselves order and transact the
that the cost-effectiveness of the energy efficiency projects measures.
will decrease over time must be considered. In other words,
further improvements will require increasing effort. We are upstream and downstream emissions
therefore striving to enhance the cost effectiveness of the (scope 3)
projects in partnership with customers so that we can con- We want to shape climate action beyond our immediate
tribute as best possible to climate action with the resources sphere of influence (scope 1 & 2) and also systematically
available to us. reduce upstream and downstream emissions (scope 3). In
this process, we are focusing on the categories that make up
Goal management and implementation around 98 percent of our scope 3 emissions: upstream
The corporate sustainability board is the central body for emissions in the Bosch value chain primarily concern pur-
goal management in climate action and convenes twice a chased goods and services as well as logistics. Downstream
year. It makes decisions on implementing the climate action emissions are mainly caused by the use of our products.
strategy (scope 1, 2, 3) and manages implementation of the
adopted action plans (see the “Strategy and management” At 458 million metric tons of CO₂ in the baseline year 2018,
section). upstream and downstream emissions exceeded those in
scopes 1 and 2 several times over (see G 13). Since 2018, we
To achieve the group-wide targets set for 2030, all Bosch have cut our scope 3 emissions by around 27 percent, down
divisions are pursuing staggered annual targets. These tar- to 335 million metric tons of CO₂ in 2023 (see G 14).
gets are set based on the energy demand and the savings
achieved so far. Targets are cascaded down to individual
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
33
Encouraged by this success, we have decided to signifi- mitigated will increase steadily as the company grows in fu-
cantly increase our previous reduction target of 15 percent. ture. We can directly influence the goal achievement through
Compared to the baseline year 2018, we now intend to cut more efficient products. On the other hand, there are also a
our scope 3 emissions by 30 percent in absolute terms by large number of external factors that Bosch can only influ-
2030. The challenge we are still facing is to mitigate future ence indirectly, such as suppliers’ success in reducing CO₂
emissions relating to the anticipated sales growth by 2030. emissions, the speed of transformation processes in the
This is because the new percentage target value for reduc- energy and mobility sector, or general economic develop-
ing emissions was also purposefully set independently of ment (see G 15).
sales growth, which means that the absolute amount to be
G 13 G 14
Main scope 3 categories in baseline year Development of scope 3 emissions
Bosch Group 2018, in millions of metric tons of CO Bosch Group 2018–2023, in millions of metric tons of CO
2 2
458.3 419.9 380.3 378.6 342.7 335.1 319.7
Scope 1 & 2: Scope 3:
carbon-neutral 458.3 m t in total
since 2020
Product use Purchased Transport
goods and and
services logistics
3.3 421.7 34.0 2.6
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2030
SBTi goal
Transport and logistics
Purchased goods and services, capital goods (MAE)
The calculation of scope 3 emissions was revised in 2024 to improve data quality Product use
further. In the process, we have included additional business activities in the
calculation in the “product use” category and are using primary data increasingly Our scope 3 emissions are calculated annually in all categories in accordance
in the “purchased goods and services” category. Changes in the consolidated with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting
group are taken into account in the calculation of the baseline. Standard and subjected to external certification. Material scope 3 emissions
that are relevant for control and reporting purposes fall into the categories
Sc3.1, Sc3.2, Sc3.4/3.9 and Sc3.11. The corresponding scope 3 figures for 2024
were not available before publication of the report, but will be published
without delay in the key figures tool at sustainability.bosch.com.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
34
In order to achieve our goal, we are taking a step-by-step ap- In 2024, an internal CO₂ price was piloted in the Electrified
proach. Having identified the material scope 3 categories, Motion division to calculate the total cost of ownership
we increased the granularity of our calculations and data (TCO). The CO₂ price is to be used to make objective deci-
collection. This allows us now to identify material drivers for sions in the event of conflicting objectives between costs
emissions within purchasing and logistics as well as in the and PCF (product carbon footprint) in various areas, for ex-
use of our products, and to derive measures that make a ample, product designs or concepts for procurement, logis-
measurable contribution to climate action. tics and transportation. It is based on the price of emission
allowances in the European Emissions Trading System (EU
ETS).
G 15
Key levers for achieving the scope 3 target
Calculation base and key direct and indirect levers
Scope 3 categories Calculation base Key levers for reducing CO
2
Direct Indirect
Upstream emissions Realign top-down Refine status quo Transform energy
sector
Purchased goods and ▶ Purchasing volume
services ▶ Goods categories ▶ Supplier selection ▶ Supplier development ▶ Green electricity
(including machinery ▶ Source region ▶ Sourcing of secondary ▶ Route optimization ▶ Hydrogen
and equipment) ▶ Mode of transport raw materials ▶ Biogas
Transport and logistics ▶ Mode of transport
(also downstream) (sea, land, air)
Downstream emissions Energy efficiency Transformation and port-
folio optimization
Product use ▶ Volume
▶ Sales revenue ▶ Increased efficiency ▶ Investment in growth
▶ Efficiency ▶ Digitalization areas (e-mobility, heat
▶ Energy source ▶ Optimized use pumps)
▶ Emissions factors ▶ Phaseout of products
▶ Product life with lowest energy
efficiency
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
35
G 16 Scope 3, upstream: Purchased goods and services already committed to specific CO₂ targets (prior year: over
To reduce upstream CO₂ emissions in purchasing, all divi- 450 suppliers) and are thus following the path Bosch has Results of surveys via the
CDP platform
sions use a standardized steering concept. The individual also taken to achieve its climate targets (scope 1, 2, 3).
instruments fit seamlessly into Bosch’s higher-level sustain-
2,000 2,200 4,400
ability methodology system. We want to make sure that sup- Following the successful completion of a number of pilot
1,253 1,759 3,268
pliers can use their resources as efficiently as possible. projects, many divisions have taken account of the sustain-
With this in mind we do not influence the measures they ability performance of potential suppliers in the purchasing
choose to reduce CO₂ emissions, rather we aim to enter into process since 2023, in order to support the achievement of
target agreements with our suppliers. sustainability targets when awarding contracts. Apart from
the direct effects on our upstream CO₂ emissions, this ap-
▶ General target agreements proach gives Bosch a multiplier effect, which exceeds the
We use general target agreements with suppliers to reduce effects in its own supply chain many times over. This is be-
our suppliers’ CO₂ emissions, based on valid and transpar- cause the suppliers’ commitments to the SBTi initiated by
>1,270
ent data on carbon emissions and preferably in combination Bosch also impact their other products and business
>450
232
with a specific SBTi commitment12. relationships.
2022 2023 2024
Individual ambition levels have been set for all relevant ▶ Specific agreements for focus materials
Suppliers contacted
Bosch divisions, which cover the period from 2024 to 2030. We also use specific agreements with our suppliers for fo-
Responses
We are collaborating with our suppliers on this basis to ob- cus materials such as steel, aluminum, copper, and plastics Suppliers with SBTi commitment
tain detailed information and data on group-wide CO₂ emis- as these materials are responsible for a material proportion
sions (scope 1, 2, 3) for around 80 percent of our purchasing of the CO₂ emissions in the supply chain. To purchase mate-
volume by 2030. This figure stands at 77 percent at the mo- rials that are as low-carbon as possible in the future, we
ment (prior year: 60 percent). At the same time, we intend to analyzed the CO₂ reduction potential and identified reduc-
source more than 50 percent of our purchasing volume from tion paths. Pilot projects have been carried out on this in
suppliers that have already committed to the SBTi and set some divisions since 2023.
themselves targets in line with the Paris Climate Agree-
ment. We were also able to increase this figure in 2024, In the Mobility business sector, material specifications for
which now stands at 38 percent (prior year: 25 percent). By the material carbon footprint (MCF specifications) were
the end of the reporting year, over 1,270 of our suppliers had created for the focus materials steel, aluminum, and copper
in 2024 and made available for the purchasing process. The
MCF specifications include upper CO₂ intensity limits for
the raw materials mentioned as well as lower limits for re-
cycled content in the case of alloys.
12 The SBTi commitment refers to the voluntary commitment by companies to set
science-based targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Through this
commitment, companies demonstrate their willingness to contribute actively
to climate action and to align their business practices with the goals of the
Paris Climate Agreement.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
36
Approach and methodology for improving scope 3 data The product carbon footprint (PCF) is a means for us to re-
quality cord the emissions caused during a product’s manufactur-
Clear rules and targets require uniform definitions and cal- ing and production process. The material carbon footprint
culation standards because this is the only way to make (MCF) is a means for us to record the emissions caused dur-
performance transparent and comparable. This is particu- ing the extraction and production of specific materials.
larly true when it comes to advancing sustainability issues Here, too, primary data is preferable to secondary data be-
overall across supply chains. As there is still no international cause they are of greater informative value, as directly re-
standardization and the information currently available is quested product or material-related information provides
sometimes of poor quality, we rely on a combination of ap- the greatest possible transparency and accuracy. However,
proaches to obtain supply chain data and try in this way to a lack of international standards still makes data compari-
improve the quality and comparability of the data collected. sons difficult. We are currently working with external part-
In order to manage the collection of supply chain data uni- ners on a software solution to obtain primary data on the
formly across the Group, we adopted an internal regulation PCF and MCF from our suppliers. At the same time, existing
on CO₂ data collection in the supply chain in 2024, which database structures will continue in parallel for recording
will be implemented from 2025.
We prefer to use primary data that we request our suppliers
to provide. Through these direct requests, for example via Determining the corporate, product, and material
carbon footprint
the CDP platform, we obtain specific data on our suppliers’
individual emissions profile and make their specific devel- Improving data quality in two stages, scope 3, upstream
opment transparent. If no primary data is available, we use
Stage 1
secondary data from established databases. In that case,
for example, we record emissions for specific products us-
ing industry averages and also include the technology used
in the manufacturing process and geographical factors. We
calculate the corporate carbon footprint (CCF) on this ba-
sis. The CCF is the share of the supplier’s emissions that is
attributed to Bosch as the buyer on the basis of sales. This
enables us to benchmark all suppliers based on compara-
ble standards and to manage them strategically. We plan to
use primary data largely in the future so that our calcula-
tions are as precise as possible.
2
egatS
T 07
Secondary data Primary data (sources)
(sources)
Corporate Databases Supplier survey, e.g.
carbon foot- via the CDP platform
print (CCF) and SupplyON
Product Databases Supplier survey via
carbon foot- SupplyOn and develop-
print (PCF), ment of standards
material car-
bon footprint
(MCF)
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
37
product-related primary data. It is already possible to re- ▶ Alternative powertrains and fuels
cord and take into account the PCF or MCF when awarding In the future, alternative powertrains and fuels will play an
contracts. ever-greater role in reducing carbon emissions. The avail-
ability of vehicles with alternative powertrains is increasing
Scope 3, upstream: Transport and logistics all the time. In ongoing projects, Bosch is already today
In logistics, we primarily aim to reduce CO₂ emitted during evaluating further potential to curb CO₂ in delivery traffic.
the transport of goods. We have a variety of instruments at Attention is focused here on strategic cooperation with lo-
our disposal here: gistics service providers in a bid to achieve short- and me-
dium-term emissions reductions by using biofuels or alter-
▶ Optimizing freight native powertrain technologies.
Transport management centers (TMC) have been estab-
lished worldwide to manage shipments between suppliers, The first applications worldwide were launched in 2023. For
Bosch plants, and customers. We have already achieved a example, freight forwarders are already using trucks pow-
high degree of standardization in this area and can guaran- ered by fuel cell technology for Bosch in China. Meanwhile,
tee efficient transport – also with respect to environmental battery-electric powered trucks are used for shuttle traffic
criteria – by pooling freight. To secure even higher capacity at sites in Anderson in the U.S. and Wernau in Germany. In
utilization, especially for road shipments, a new transport addition, some of our parcel services have been using bat-
management system was introduced at Bosch in 2023. This tery-electric powered vans and have provided us with evi-
system enables cyclical strategic planning of the transport dence of the CO₂ savings compared with diesel vehicles.
network and short-term operational planning of routes, Alternative fuels such as HVO100 (hydrotreated vegetable
modes of transport, and load quantities. oils) and BioLNG (a mix of liquefied fossil gas (LNG) and
liquefied biomethane) are used by our logistics service pro-
Our goal is to increase transport capacity utilization by truck viders on 28 routes in Europe. Compared to the consump-
from about 65 percent in 2023 to 80 percent in 2025 and tion of diesel fuel, this saves around 1,690 metric tons of
thus reduce carbon emissions with this mode of transport CO₂ per year. HVO100 has also been used for internal trans-
by up to 10 percent. Capacity utilization currently stands at port at our German site in Bamberg since 2024.
67 percent. At the same time, we are working on moving
freight transport from road to rail. ▶ Reducing air cargo
Air cargo remains economically viable for parts such as
electronic components or smaller and lightweight parts and
is practically irreplaceable for reducing turnaround times in
international production networks. As a general rule, how-
ever, we want to avoid air cargo and only use it in exceptional
cases, since roughly 70 percent of all of Bosch’s transport-
related CO₂ emissions are attributable to this mode of
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Climate action
38
Climate action
transport. Whenever possible, we therefore switch ship- Reduction in transport-related CO emissions
2
ments destined for Bosch from air to sea or rail freight. The A team made up of representatives from purchasing, central
corresponding potential is reviewed continuously. logistics, the divisions, and plants is working on developing
key measures for reducing CO₂ emissions. Moreover, the
▶ Improving packaging design individual divisions and plants devise local measures that
In a joint initiative with the divisions, work is also under way are implemented on site. Since 2018, we have cut our trans-
to increase packing density in a bid to use less packaging port-related CO₂ emissions by around 27 percent, down to
material, storage space, and transport capacity – in turn, 1.9 million metric tons of CO₂ in 2023. Initial calculations for
reducing CO₂ emissions. Packaging Design Centers have 2024 show that we have achieved a further reduction of
been set up in Europe and North America to improve and around 4 percent compared to the prior year. This is mainly
standardize packaging. At the same time, we want to use due to the reduced use of air freight.
packaging material with a higher recycling content. The in-
ternal Packaging Excellence Award has been presented Since 2020 we have also been offsetting the CO₂ emissions
since 2024 to promote this topic. The award for the “Best generated by the business air travel of all associates and are
Sustainable Solution” category went to a modular packag- supporting climate action too with our worldwide principles
ing system for the Bosch eAxle, which enables a higher on company car usage. In addition to reducing CO₂ emis-
packing density with less materials utilization compared to sions, for example, through a defined CO₂ cap or a bonus/
the previous packaging system. penalty scheme linked to a vehicle’s CO₂ emissions, the
country-specific regulations also provide for a range of al-
▶ Consistent use of the total cost of ownership (TCO) ternative forms of mobility to the classic company car.
approach
The TCO approach considers all costs incurred when pur-
chasing a component or a product. These costs include
freight, customs, and packaging costs. In addition, risk and
location factors are assessed, which likewise contribute
to the decision to buy. An example of this is the proximity
to our site. The corresponding potential is reviewed
continuously.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
39
Climate action
Scope 3, downstream: Product use ▶ Market transformation and portfolio optimization
Around 90 percent of scope 3 emissions are generated dur- Far-reaching structural changes in markets or industries, for
ing the product life cycle, which is why energy efficiency in example as a result of technological innovations, changes in
product development is a high priority at Bosch. We cur- consumer patterns, regulations, or globalization, require
rently see the greatest potential for lowering CO₂ emissions fundamental adjustments to a company’s strategies and
in those divisions in which products require a relevant business models. These transformation processes can be
amount of energy, that is above all mobility, thermotechnol- used to deliver improvements in climate action.
ogy, industrial drive and control technology, and household
appliances. The focus is on three leverage points in each A current example of this is switching the heat supply to re-
case: newable energy sources. The Home Comfort division is driv-
ing this development through expansion of the electric
▶ Boosting energy efficiency portfolio and is investing in particular in development and
The energy efficiency of products can increase from one production capacity for heat pumps. This strategy is begin-
product generation to the next. That said, we keep an eye on ning to produce results in the form of higher sales figures in
the average energy efficiency of a product portfolio. Bosch recent years and the subsequent reduction in emissions
Rexroth leverages energy efficiency potential by improving from product use (scope 3). In the area of Home Comfort,
design parameters (e.g., weight reduction) and through the these scope 3 emissions were 21 percent lower in 2023 com-
type and quality of the materials used. Thanks to active pared with the baseline year (2018), which is also attribut-
portfolio management, these improvements are also having able to the shift in the portfolio from fossil fuel heating sys-
an impact on the market: 63 percent of all electric motors tems to electric solutions.
sold in 2024 were models with the highest efficiency. At the
same time, savings can be achieved by using the right con- As one of the largest suppliers to the automotive industry,
trol software in existing products. For example, in mobile Bosch is pressing ahead with the transition to electromobil-
hydraulics for construction machinery. The combination of ity and utilizing the available opportunities. The company
hardware and software and the resulting needs-based use aims to generate sales of six billion euros in this area in
can reduce energy consumption by around 40 percent. In- 2026. We currently serve more than 50 customers world-
telligent driver assistance systems alone can result in en- wide. By the end of 2024, Bosch had manufactured more
ergy savings of 15 percent. than 15 million powertrain components for electric
vehicles.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
40
Climate action
▶ Transformation of the energy sector through the
use of green electricity, hydrogen, and biogas
Because many of Bosch’s products, systems, and facilities
operate on the basis of electricity, an increased proportion
of green electricity in the power grids has a direct positive
effect on our carbon footprint downstream, so during the
product life cycle. The corresponding transformation of the
energy sector is therefore highly relevant for achieving our
scope 3 target – even if it can only be influenced in a small
way by Bosch.
Reduction in CO₂ emissions in the product use phase
To achieve the overarching SBTi target, the relevant divi-
sions are pursuing specific CO₂ targets and targeted action
plans. The plans are based on currently available findings
and market development scenarios in the coming years. The
progress toward goal achievement as well as the underlying
scenarios and framework conditions are reviewed annually.
If any changes occur, we make adjustments accordingly.
Up until 2023, we were able to significantly reduce scope 3
emissions resulting from the use of our products – from
422 million metric tons of CO₂ in the baseline year 2018 to
300 million metric tons of CO₂. The material drivers underly-
ing this reduction include the shift initiated within the prod-
uct portfolio toward higher energy efficiency classes, more
energy-efficient motors and pumps, the supply of heat
pumps and solar collectors, as well as the transformation
toward e-mobility.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
41
Circular economy
With our circular economy strategy, we want to enhance the vital for Bosch to develop a market-specific circular econ-
sustainability of our products over their entire life cycle – omy strategy for each division and find the optimum mix of
from procurement and production to use, return, and re- the three levers in each case.
manufacturing, right through to recycling and reuse of mate-
rials. To this end, we endeavor to either create loops directly By organizing the material flows according to the concept of
within Bosch or close them outside the company using es- the circular economy, we also impact the corresponding
tablished recycling processes. This way, we reduce the CO₂ emissions directly. This relationship is also illustrated
amount of materials used and our products’ carbon foot- by our sustainability methodology. This means that by using
print13 and contribute toward achieving our scope 3 target. material more efficiently and taking advantage of recycled
At the same time, we also avoid potential risks relating to materials, fewer resources are consumed in general and the
compliance with environmental and social standards. Build- related CO₂ emissions are also reduced.
ing a closed-loop system for materials has the particular
advantage of eliminating parts of the value chain that are
subject to risks, such as extraction of raw materials.
G 17
As with carbon neutrality (scope 1 & 2), in our circular econ- Sustainability methodology, focus on circular economy
omy strategy we use a model comprising levers that can be Measures for improving sustainability performance along the value chain
applied across the entire value chain and that is based on
the core levers of our higher-level sustainability methodol-
ogy (see G 17). Depending on the markets in which our divi-
sions operate, however, the levers differ in their degree of
effectiveness, are not equally applicable across the board,
Upstream Own operations Downstream
and therefore offer different development potential. This
was evident from an analysis we carried out in 2022 of Materials efficiency: Efficient use of material, analysis of the associated
Increased efficiency environmental and social effects
around 80 product groups, which collectively account for
roughly 80 percent of Bosch’s sales revenue. It is therefore Resources from Second life: Reuse, repair, and remanufacturing of products and
renewable sources components
Changes in technology Recycled materials: Use of recycled materials and recovery of raw materials
Range of topics Scope 3, upstream: Design for Environment and Adjustment of product
13 Unless otherwise stated, carbon footprint takes into account all greenhouse
Purchased goods and waste management portfolio
gas emissions ranging from raw materials extraction to transport, production,
services
sales, and use through to disposal of the product (cradle to grave) (see DIN EN
ISO 14067).
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Circular economy
42
With remanufacturing of products and parts, the product is A comprehensive web-based training program raises aware-
rebuilt and only defective parts are replaced. This extends ness about aspects of the circular economy among product
the product life cycle. managers and developers. Around 6,600 associates have
taken part in the training program since it was launched in
Design and production guidelines for environmentally com- 2023. Split into four modules, it provides training on sus-
patible product development (Design for Environment, DfE) tainable product development, materials efficiency, second
are described in an internal standard. Supplementary docu- life, and recycling-compliant development.
ments define methods for calculating product carbon foot-
prints (PCF) and material carbon footprints (MCF) (also see Lever 1: Materials efficiency
“Approach and methodology for improving scope 3 data Improvements in materials utilization can reduce the con-
quality”). A cross-divisional and interdisciplinary research sumption of resources and also cut the manufacturing cost
project will draw up specific strategies and implementation of a product. Bosch can also directly influence the corre-
options for developing products in line with the circular sponding measures. For years, improvements in materials
economy based on the example of a product group by efficiency in production processes or products have there-
mid-2027. fore been an essential element of our product development
process, where it is anchored in an internal standard via the
environmental aspects of Design for environment
Product life cycle
Design and
Manufacturing Packaging Transport Use End of life
purchasing
▶ Materials efficiency ▶ Emissions ▶ Type and quantity ▶ Mode of transport ▶ Resource and energy ▶ Reuse
▶ Ability to repair ▶ Waste of materials ▶ Transport capacity consumption ▶ Remanufacturing
▶ Upgradeability ▶ Substances of ▶ Recyclability utilization ▶ Emissions ▶ Recycling
▶ Secondary and concern ▶ Reuse and take-back ▶ Local purchasing (including CO₂,
recycled material ▶ Hot spot processes pollutants, noise)
▶ Renewable raw
materials
▶ Avoidance of high-risk
raw materials
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Circular economy
43
G 18
Design for Environment (DfE) principle. Examples of mea- Life cycle assessments
sures include the reduction of waste or material require-
Based on the idea of a closed-loop or circular economy, we have been systematically conduct-
ments for specific products. Objectives such as the effi-
ing life cycle assessments (LCAs) for material product groups since 2017. This entails evaluating
ciency of powertrains are formulated here for the specific
product-specific environmental aspects in each phase of the product life cycle – from purchas-
product and tracked using appropriate indicators if required. ing to production and use right through to disposal. Depending on the use case, we distinguish
The environmental and social effects of using certain raw between two assessment methods: the full-scale LCA, performed in compliance with ISO 14040
materials are also considered in order to keep the environ- and 14044, and the streamlined LCA, allowing faster assessment of specific issues and draw-
mental impact of materials utilized to a minimum, while at ing on standard database values. While various environmental aspects are evaluated in life cycle
the same time taking into account social aspects. Good assessments, the focus for the calculations of product carbon footprints (PCF) and material car-
practice is shared throughout the company as part of an in- bon footprints (MCF) is on the CO 2 emissions associated with the product or material (for more
information, see “Approach and methodology for improving scope 3 data quality”).
ternal network for sustainable production to improve mate-
rials efficiency in production.
Wiper blades from Mobility Aftermarket
Lever 2: Second life Wiper blades are a part subject to wear and should be replaced regularly. Here, too, products
In the second lever, we have grouped together those mea- are being continuously developed. The calculation of the PCF of wiper blades in the Mobility
sures that allow us to improve materials flows or to close Aftermarket division served as the basis for the targeted improvement of product design and
packaging. The PCF was reduced by 24 percent as a result of the derived measures.14
loops within the company. The concepts and activities of
the divisions range from reusing products and their compo- The Aerotwin Plus wiper range generally comes with various adapters to fit the wiper blades.
nents to repairs and right through to remanufacturing – in Thanks to an additional offer, workshops now have the option of ordering the required adapt-
each case with the objective of extending product and com- ers separately. This reduces the amount of materials utilized by Bosch and the amount of waste
ponent life cycles. While Bosch can reduce negative effects generated by adapters that are not required. In addition, the packaging was adapted to the spe-
– which arise, for example, during the extraction of raw ma- cific requirements of the “workshop” sales channel, allowing a lean and therefore space-saving
packaging solution to be used. This results in 50 percent less packaging waste in the workshops,
terials – by closing the materials and products loop, the ef-
while at the same time achieving a higher packing density during transport.
fectiveness of the measures also depends on there being
sufficient demand – and this places strict requirements on 14 Comparison between the revised Aerotwin windshield wipers GWB2S3 340MM (P/N: 3398.134.293);
product development. GWB2S3 600MM (P/N: 3398.134.304); GWB2S3 750MM (P/N: 3398.132.06F) and the previous Aerotwin windshield wipers.
PCF calculation according to ISO 14067 (cradle to gate).
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Circular economy
44
The individual divisions of Bosch each set their own priori- Extended availability of spare parts at BSH Hausgeräte GmbH
ties in this regard, depending on market and product-spe-
BSH Hausgeräte GmbH generally keeps spare parts for large appliances (e.g.
cific framework conditions. Take, for example, the Mobility
washing machines) in stock for up to 15 years and for small appliances (e.g.
Aftermarket and Bosch Rexroth divisions, which each serve
vacuum cleaners) for ten years. This applies to all functional and storable parts
the Remanufacturing and Repair and Remanufacturing busi- of appliances produced after January 1, 2023. With over 350,000 spare parts
ness lines. For over 50 years, the Bosch eXchange program available and a worldwide service network of 12,000 technicians and partners,
has been offering customers the option to have defective BSH ensures fast and competent repairs. In 81 percent of cases, the problem
vehicle components replaced with remanufactured prod- is solved on the first customer service visit.
ucts at specialist workshops.15 Bosch Rexroth gives old con-
trol and powertrain technology products a second life with Rental and subscription of household appliances
the “Remanufactured Products” program. Both divisions are BSH BlueMovement is a circular business model from BSH Hausgeräte GmbH
focused on successively extending their activities in these that focuses on the rental and subscription of household appliances. It aims to
segments. extend the life cycle of appliances, reduce electronic waste, and offer consum-
ers affordable access to high-quality appliances. After the rental period, BSH
Lever 3: Recycled materials reconditions the appliances and uses them for new cycles. Appliances that
The third lever of our circular economy strategy – recycled cannot be repaired are recycled and suitable components are reused as spare
parts. Household appliances rented from BlueMovement can therefore last
materials – covers all measures to close the loop by estab-
up to 20 percent longer than purchased appliances.16 The model has since
lished recycling processes for materials such as steel, alu-
been extended to business customers and the portfolio has been expanded to
minum, and plastics. This way, we can reduce the use of
include additional appliance categories.
primary materials and lessen our environmental impact – as
well as mitigate human rights risks associated with the ex- 16 Comparison between the BlueMovement circular business model and a traditional linear
traction of raw materials. Our use of recycled materials also purchasing model according to ISO 14021:2016. Based on data from large household appliances
that have been used for at least two years, refurbished and rented to another customer.
means that we are supporting the achievement of our scope
3 target.
15 Bosch eXchange can be supplemented by new material, if necessary,
in order to ensure a high degree of market coverage and delivery capability.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Circular economy
45
The activities of two divisions should be mentioned as ex- Recicla Auto Partes – recycling program for automotive parts in Brazil
amples in this context. The Bosch Power Tools division has
With the “Recicla Auto Partes” program, the Mobility Aftermarket division in Brazil has created the
set quantitative targets for the use of recycled plastics. Spe-
opportunity for workshops to recycle defective automotive parts. Currently, 56 Bosch Car Service
cific targets have also been set for packaging materials. BSH
workshops are participating in the program. Since 2023, 105 metric tons of defective parts have
Hausgeräte GmbH is aiming to increase the proportion of been collected and recycled.
recycled material used in products and at the same time
improve the recyclability of the products. Recycled material for the Performance Line CX and PowerTubes from eBike
Bosch eBike uses partially recycled material in the production of the Performance Line CX
Key factors determining how effective the measures are in-
(BDU384Y) as well as the PowerTube 600 and PowerTube 800: for the first time in the drive
clude whether high-quality materials are available, as well
unit’s largest plastic part as well as in the battery mount and battery housing.17 Furthermore, the
as whether the percentage of recycled materials used can amount of materials utilized for the batteries has been reduced.18 In future, the black color coat-
be verified, and whether they can be purchased cost-effec- ing will also be omitted. In pilot projects, Bosch eBike is focusing on purchasing components that
tively (see also “Scope 3, upstream: Purchased goods and were produced using electricity from renewable sources. This applies to the aluminum of the Pow-
services”). erTube 600 and the PowerTube 800 as well as to the housing of the Performance Line CX.
Across all our products, the average percentage of recycled Bosch Power Tools relies on recycled material for the production of carbides
steel used is around 56 percent. At 35 percent, the propor- Bosch Power Tools has been using recycled carbides for the production of new accessories for
tion of recycled aluminum matches the average level in the over ten years. At the plant in Udine, Italy, around 20 percent recycled material from Bosch’s own
industry. For plastics, the percentage of recycled material sources is used in the production of carbide. Sintered carbide19 and grinding sludge are collected
that we purchase as raw material is around 5 percent. We from production processes at Bosch sites and sent to a remanufacturer. The recyclable materials
intend to increase this share further in the coming years. are chemically treated20, cleaned, and processed into tungsten carbide and cobalt powder to be
used at the plant in Udine for the production of new accessories such as circular saw blades. This
reduces the demand for the high-risk primary raw materials tungsten and cobalt accordingly (for
G 19 more information on high-risk raw materials, see the “Social” section).
Key materials used 17 Primary plastics and metals were used for previous drive units and batteries. Recycled material is now specifically used in
the grease guide plate of the drive unit, in the protective cap of the battery mount system and in the battery housing. By
Bosch Group 2024, in 1,000 metric tons
providing the grease reservoir, the grease guide plate makes a significant contribution to the efficiency level and life of
the drive unit and was produced for the first time using a plastic that consists of around 50 percent recycled material. We
Aluminum 216 use recycled polypropylene for the protective cap of the battery mount system, while we use aluminum, consisting of
approximately 38 percent recycled material, for the battery housing.
Plastics 411 18 The reduction is achieved by reducing the wall thickness of the housing. When comparing PowerTube 600 with PowerTube
625, the housing wall is 26 percent lighter, and 37 percent lighter when comparing PowerTube 800 with PowerTube 750.
2,353 19 Sintering is a process for manufacturing metal or ceramic parts from powdered primary material.
Steel 1,726 20 In the recycling process, the process chemicals are kept in a closed loop.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Circular economy
46
Waste Specific measures are being implemented at sites with rela-
The previously discussed instruments are also relevant for tively large quantities of waste to reduce the amount of
our own activities. This is especially the case with waste waste. Use of vacuum distillation and ultrafiltration is lead-
management. “Avoid, then reuse, then dispose” – that is the ing to a reduction in the quantity of cooling lubricants that
principle we apply at Bosch with respect to waste manage- need to be disposed of, while the volume of washing water
ment. As part of its circular economy strategy, Bosch contin- is likewise decreasing. Centrifugal treatment leads to a de-
ues to work systematically on reducing waste volume and, crease in the quantity of oil to be disposed of.
in particular, on recycling. A group guideline defines pro-
cesses and ensures that the legal requirements for the In order to reduce the amount of waste going to landfills, we
transport and disposal of waste are complied with locally. want to increase the recycling ratio. With this in mind, we
All production locations have a clearly designated organiza- implemented the “Zero Waste to Landfill” campaign in 2019.
tional unit responsible for sorting, classifying, and handing
over waste to disposal companies.
In 2024, Bosch generated 617,570 metric tons of waste (prior T 08
year: 666,028 metric tons), a decrease of 7.3 percent. Of the Waste volume and disposal
amount of waste, it was possible to recycle 87 percent. In Bosch Group 2022–2024, in 1,000 metric tons
relation to the development of sales revenue, the waste vol-
2022 2023 2024
ume decreased by around 6 percent year on year (also see T
Bosch Group 678.3 666.0 617.6
08). An analysis of waste at a number of production loca-
Recyceled waste 584.4 569.9 539.4
tions, which together account for around 80 percent of our
Waste for disposal 93.9 96.1 78.2
total amount of waste, has shown that roughly 45 percent of
thereof hazardous waste 75.8 76.4 77.4
our waste consists of metals, 24 percent is packaging waste,
and around 13 percent is hazardous waste. In addition – as Material-based recycling 35.4 36.7 33.6
the analysis also revealed – there is potential to lower the Thermal recycling 7.0 7.6 7.3
volume of hazardous waste and therefore not only reduce Other recycling 7.7 7.9 9.4
disposal costs, but make an important contribution to pro- Landfill disposal 3.0 3.3 4.0
tecting people and the environment. In 2019, we decided to Disposal through incinera-
pursue two priorities in response to these findings: reducing tion 7.9 7.5 7.5
hazardous waste and minimizing the amount of waste going Other disposal 14.8 13.4 15.6
to landfills. At Bosch, hazardous waste occurs mainly in the
form of cooling lubricants, washing water, oils, and fuels. In Waste intensity
2024, their volume increased by 1.3 percent to 77,412 metric in metric tons/million euros of sales revenue
tons compared with the prior year (76,436 metric tons).
2022 2023 2024
Bosch Group 7.7 7.3 6.8
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Circular economy
47
Water
Conscientious use of water is a major priority for Bosch. We that water withdrawal can also be reduced in the supply
especially focus on counteracting the increasing scarcity of chain by sourcing materials that have been produced with
water. Interdependencies arise in this case also with our green electricity. When it comes to manufacturing steel, the
activities in the areas of climate action and the circular water withdrawal can thus be reduced by just under 19 per-
economy. This became apparent when developing the sus- cent by using renewable energy in the supply chain.22
tainability methodology. Energy, material, and water con-
sumption frequently exhibit similar patterns. For example,
21 Grubert and Sanders (2018): Water Use in the United States Energy System:
less water is required to produce green electricity than to A National Assessment and Unit Process Inventory of Water Consumption and
produce electricity from fossil fuels (gray electricity), due to Withdrawals; Environ. Sci. Technol. 2018, 52, 11, 6695–6703.
22 Internal calculation: production of steel with green electricity compared with
the associated high cooling water requirement.21 This means production of steel with gray electricity based on Grubert and Sanders (2018).
G 20
Sustainability methodology, focus on water
Measures for improving sustainability performance along the value chain
Upstream Own operations Downstream
Increased efficiency Water-efficient processes Water-efficient products
Indirect effects of CO and
2
Resources from circular economy strategy
renewable sources Rainwater usage Water treatment
Changes in technology Water-efficient processes
Range of topics Scope 3, upstream: Water management Adjustment of product
Purchased goods and portfolio
services
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Water
48
Water targets for company locations in
regions with water scarcity G 21
We analyzed our company locations using the Water Risk Company sites in regions with water scarcity
Filter provided by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).
According to this analysis, 70 of our sites are located in ar-
eas of severe or severest water scarcity (see G 21). We have
set ourselves a target of reducing absolute water withdrawal
at the 70 sites identified by 25 percent by 2025 compared
2 4 1
with our 2017 baseline year. In 2024, company locations in
2 1 5
regions with water scarcity accounted for around 2.23 mil- 4 1 2
1 6
lion m³ of water (prior year: 2.32 million m³) or 11.1 percent
1
of Bosch’s total annual water withdrawal. This corresponds
10 1
to a reduction of around 28.5 percent compared to the base-
line year 2017 (prior year: 25.6 percent).
17
Total water withdrawal by the Bosch Group increased to 8
20.0 million m³ in 2024 (prior year: 19.5 m³). In relation to 3
1
sales revenue, this constitutes a relative increase of around
4.2 percent year on year (also see T 10 and G 22).
In 2025, we will analyze our company locations again using Withdrawal Share of total
the Water Risk Filter from the World Wide Fund for Nature in millions water with-
Number of m3 drawal Affected regions
(WWF) and set ourselves a new target based on the results,
Sites with the severest Chile, India, Morocco, Spain, Turkey,
which will extend beyond 2025.
water scarcity 23 0.4 2.0% United Arab Emirates
China, France, Greece, India,
Identifying and realizing savings potential Sites with severe water Italy, Mexico, Portugal, South Africa,
scarcity 47 1.8 9.2% Spain, Thailand, Turkey, USA
Bosch requires water for cooling systems, sanitary facilities
and technical processes. We are focusing on process im-
provements, recycling, and the use of rainwater to further
T 09
reduce water withdrawal at our company locations. In re-
gions with strained water supplies, water is already reused Water withdrawal in regions with water scarcity
or rainwater is used wherever possible. To ensure that the Sites in regions with severe or severest water scarcity
funds for achieving water targets are used efficiently, water 2017–2024, in millions of cubic meters
coordinators in the divisions identify local savings potential 2025
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 target
and implement suitable measures together with those re-
sponsible at the sites concerned. Since 2019, we have 3.1 3.0 2.8 2.4 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.3
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Water
49
launched more than 260 projects that enable us to save up Environmentally friendly water treatment
to 700,000 m³ of water at our sites each year. By systemati-
Bosch products contribute to the sustainable use of water on an industrial scale as
cally collecting rainwater we reduce the amount of ground-
well. In a new business field, water treatment systems have been marketed since 2024
water we extract and the amount of water we withdraw from
to provide electrolyzers all over the world with high-purity water for the production
the public water supply. In 2023, we were able to nearly of hydrogen. The challenges are especially demanding for facilities offshore or in the
double the quantity of rainwater used company-wide year desert, for example due to salty water of extreme water hardness. In this harsh environ-
on year to 140,000 m³ (prior year: 74,000 m³). In 2024, we ment, the Bosch systems use thermal and electrochemical processes to extract miner-
used 190,000 m3 of rainwater. als from the water in order to produce high-purity water. Compared to systems based
on reverse osmosis, Bosch systems do not require a filter medium for distillation. As a
Collection systems for monsoon rains result, operators can dispense completely with the use of chemicals when treating salty
water. In the coming years, Bosch plans to install several water treatment systems at its
A new rainwater collection system was put into operation in
own locations in regions with severe water scarcity.
Bidadi in India in 2023, which has a storage capacity of
10,000 m³. In 2024, around 64,000 m³ of rainwater was col-
lected and used at the site. This covered roughly 41 percent
of the total volume of water needed at the site. Rainwater is
also used at the site in Naganathapura in India. Around
T 10
11,200 m³ of rainwater was treated and used at the plants in
2024, covering roughly 26 percent of the total water demand Water withdrawal
at the site in this period. Bosch Group 2022–2024, in millions of cubic meters
2022 2023 2024
Bosch Group 19.13 19.47 20.02
G 22 Surface water 3.71 3.51 3.12
Groundwater 2.22 2.99 3.26
Water withdrawal
Public/private waterworks 13.16 12.94 13.61
Bosch Group 2024 by region, in millions of cubic
meters Fresh water23 19.09 19.44 19.99
Public/private waterworks 0.04 0.03 0.03
Other sources24 0.04 0.03 0.03
Asia Pacific Germany
(including other 6.52 23 < 1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids
countries, also
24 > 1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids
in Africa) 20.02
5.75
Americas Water intensity
1.48
Europe in cubic meters/million euros of sales revenue
(without
Germany) 2022 2023 2024
6.26
Bosch Group 216.9 212.6 221.6
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Water
50
Other environmental impacts
Other environmental impacts may arise from wastewater where which quantities are generated, how they are treated,
and air and soil emissions at our company locations. We aim and where they are discharged (see G 24). We have estab-
to have as little impact on the environment as possible here lished standard processes in the company for monitoring
too and are working to fulfil this aspiration with our Group- local wastewater quality requirements and standards.
wide environmental management system. We have estab-
lished a systematic material data management system for One incident in which substances were released was re-
the management of substance bans and restrictions, which ported through our incident management system in 2024.
helps ensure material compliance. The impact on the environment was categorized as low.
Wastewater
Wastewater at Bosch is mainly produced in sanitary facili- G 23
ties and canteens (46 percent) and also in connection with
cooling water (29 percent). Manufacturing accounts for Wastewater
25 percent of the wastewater produced. Water is used here Bosch Group 2022–2024, in
in electroplating as well as in washing systems and machin- millions of cubic meters
ing centers, among other areas. In 2024, Bosch’s waste-
16.98 15.46 15.25
water volume decreased to 15.25 million m3 (prior year:
15.46 m3).
Negative impacts from wastewater are mainly caused by
foreign substances or excessive discharge temperatures.
Within the strategic core topic of water, we are therefore
working on further reducing wastewater flows and continu-
ously improving quality. In 2019 we recorded centrally
2022 2023 2024
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Other environmental impacts
51
At some sites, we carry out wastewater treatment in-house, ▶ Secondary treatment
using processes such as ultrafiltration to separate solids Degradation of organic matter and reduction of solids
and liquids or physical-chemical treatment methods such through biological treatment and of nutrients through a
as precipitation or distillation, depending on local combination of chemical and biological treatment.
conditions.
▶ Tertiary treatment
We apply the following wastewater treatment process: Additional treatment to remove any remaining suspended,
colloidal, and dissolved components, for example by granu-
▶ Primary treatment late filtration.
Physical removal of suspended and floating substances
such as large particles, oils, and fats by sedimentation to
feed the wastewater into secondary treatment.
Wastewater flows and discharge routes
Sewage Direct discharge
65% 33%
Infiltration
2%
Cooling towers Cooling water
29%
Untreated facility
wastewater 35%
Reuse
Water Wastewater
withdrawal 15.25 million m3 Treated facility
20.02 million m3 wastewater 12%
Untreated process
water 3%
Treated process
Irrigation water 22%
Leaks
Effluents
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Other environmental impacts
52
G 24
Air emissions process for technical reasons, we conduct hazard assess-
Air pollutants can impact people’s health and should there- ments to ensure suitable protective measures are taken for
fore be reduced. As part of the materiality assessment in safe handling of such substances.
2024, we once again examined which air pollutants are pro-
duced and at what levels in the relevant business processes No incidents in which substances were released were re-
in manufacturing, such as surface treatment and foundry ported through our incident management system in 2024.
processes. The results show that the topic has gained im-
portance. It will therefore be the focus of further activities Systematic management of materials data
in the future. At present, there are more than 16,000 statutory, industry-
specific, and customer-specific regulations worldwide gov-
use of substances of concern erning materials restrictions and declaration duties, which
At Bosch, substances of concern (SoC) are all substances in are continually changing and becoming more extensive.
production aids or products that could have a negative im- Around 1,900 of these regulations are currently relevant for
pact on human health or the environment. These include, Bosch worldwide, including the European Regulation on
for example, substances that are classified accordingly or Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of
are regulated by law, customer agreements or in-house Chemicals (REACH) or the Toxic Substances Control Act
requirements. (TSCA) in the United States. The resulting requirements are
monitored centrally as well as at division level so that any
Internal company regulations define the material compli- adjustment measures needed in response to any changes
ance requirements and specify the organization and respon- can be initiated in a timely manner.
sibilities. We are continuously working to identify permissi-
ble SoC in our products and processes, adopt substitutes, We have built a central IT system – MaCS (Material Data
and reduce or altogether avoid hazardous substances in the Management for Compliance and Sustainability) – to effi-
long term wherever possible. For example, where techni- ciently manage materials restrictions, in particular for prod-
cally feasible, we intend to dispense with substances on the ucts. The Sustainability and EHS corporate department is
EU’s REACH candidate list in new developments. Our inter- responsible for the technical coordination and continuous
nal Design for Environment standard defines the require- development of the IT system and processes. All substances
ments for handling SoC in the product development pro- of concern are rendered in the MaCS system using distinct
cess. If permissible SoC are unavoidable in the production identifiers such as Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS)
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Other environmental impacts
53
numbers. This approach takes into account the intended MaCS also includes information from the supplier declara-
use and the respective sales market as well as information tions that is made available to us via systems such as the
on materials restrictions or defined limits. MaCS currently International Material Data System (IMDS), Compliance
covers more than 40,000 identification attributes. Algo- Data Exchange (CDX), and Bosch’s declaration format. This
rithms that map the relevant materials restrictions and dec- information indicates the substances contained in the indi-
laration regulations automate the process of matching bills vidual components as well as their concentration levels. By
of materials and associated supplier declarations against linking bills of materials and supplier declarations, it is pos-
the pertinent requirements. To enable checks, MaCS maps sible to make accurate statements about the substances
the individual components of a product in the form of a bill contained in each component. The nature and scope of dec-
of materials. laration requirements Bosch has to fulfil with regard to SoC
in materials are regulated uniformly and bindingly for all
suppliers in Bosch’s standard N 2580-1.
G 25
MaCS – Material Data Management for Compliance and Sustainability
Over 16,000 legal as well as industry- and customer-specific regulations on
materials restrictions and declaration duties worldwide
Around 1,900 regulations are currently of relevance for Bosch worldwide
Mapping of substances of concern (SoC)
with CAS numbers in MaCS
Legal requirements Industry-specific Customer
requirements requirements
Materials restrictions and limits
depending on intended use and sales markets
CAS number CAS number CAS number
Bills of materials and
CAS number CAS number CAS number
supplier declarations,
and information on Automated matching
intended use and
CAS number CAS number CAS number
sales markets
CAS number CAS number CAS number
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Other environmental impacts
54
Social 4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
55
Social
As a globally operating company, Bosch takes its social responsibility
seriously. We respect human rights and actively demand this in our global
supply chains as well. At the same time, we are focused on strengthening
diversity, equity, and inclusion as well as on ensuring a safe working
environment.
Bosch as an employer
Bosch is transitioning from a manufacturer of technology Our associates are familiar with the basic principles and are
hardware to a provider of connected hardware, software, required to report violations. The same applies to violations
and services. To actively shape this change, we are purpose- of our Codes of Conduct (see the “Governance | Compli-
fully developing our corporate culture and are empowering ance” section).
our associates to acquire new competencies. At the same
time, we are creating the conditions to win new talent for The Human Resources corporate sector is responsible for
innovative, high-growth areas. defining the content-related parameters for HR manage-
ment in the countries where Bosch operates, with the re-
Regulations and organization spective regional HR management reporting to central HR
In the Basic principles of social responsibility at Bosch, management.
which have been made publicly available, the board of man-
agement of Robert Bosch GmbH and the employee repre- employment at Bosch
sentatives undertake, among other things, to comply with Bosch employs more than 417,900 people worldwide. To en-
human rights, equal opportunities, fair working conditions, able flexible staffing, around 7.4 percent of the workforce
and global standards in occupational health and safety. The have time-limited employment contracts. As a rule, they
eleven principles are based on the core labor standards of have the same training opportunities as associates with per-
the International Labour Organization (ILO). manent contracts.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
56
In addition, the company employs roughly 13,900 subcon- Our personnel recruitment activities are guided by Bosch’s
tracted workers. Bosch uses subcontracted workers when group strategy, the requirements of the specialist depart-
there is a staffing need that cannot otherwise be met. There ments, and the expectations of the target groups. We use a
is no restriction on the use of subcontracted workers, for variety of formats to reach out to potential applicants. De-
instance, in direct functions such as manufacturing and lo- pending on the target group, these range from online career
gistics. Whenever the company draws on subcontracted channels to national and international career fairs, through
workers, Bosch gives due regard to compliance with legal to social network events.
framework conditions, such as the German Temporary Em-
ployment Act (Arbeitnehmerüberlassungsgesetz) and any We benchmark our turnover rate against the respective mar-
collective bargaining agreements. If there are vacancies in ket average as an indicator of how attractive we are as an
the company, associates with time-limited employment employer. As a result, we are able to make any adjustments
contracts or subcontracted workers are considered within necessary at an early stage, for example in our employment
the applicable legal requirements and if they are equally conditions. Our objective is to always keep voluntary turn-
suited. over25 at Bosch below the average for each respective
In an increasingly competitive labor market, it is vital that
we attract the best talent and make sure they remain enthu-
25 In the case of voluntary turnover, associates leave the company of their
siastic about Bosch in the long term. We offer career-entry own accord.
opportunities at Bosch for high school graduates (intern-
ships, occupational training, and dual study programs) and
students (internships, student traineeships, and final the- G 27
ses). Bosch also offers graduates and experienced profes- turnover
sionals access to diverse fields of work. Bosch Group 2024, selected countries, in %
9.7 6.3 13.8 8.2
G 26 5.3 1.3 7.1 3.1
Associates
Bosch Group by region, as of December 31, 2024
Asia Pacific Europe
(including other (without
countries, also Germany)
in Africa) 417,859 116,427
118,811
Americas Germany Bosch Group Germany India China
52,972 129,649
Total turnover
Voluntary turnover
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
57
country. In general, it can be observed that our associates Agreements on the transformation of company locations
rarely terminate their employment relationship. However, were also concluded and continued with local works coun-
there are regional differences (see G 27). cils in 2024, for example at the Feuerbach, Schwieberdin-
gen, Abstatt, und Leinfelden sites. In all cases, participation
HR work in the transformation by associates in these programs is voluntary. The number of
The automotive industry is undergoing a profound upheaval. associates who make use of the offers is an indicator of the
The technological change in the context of more sustainable attractiveness of the respective individual measures.
mobility, as well as economic trends, leave Bosch no choice
but to adjust its workforce. Our objective is to make this In 2023, collaboration with the employee representatives
transition in a manner that is as socially acceptable as pos- in the Mobility business sector was placed on a new footing
sible. This commitment is enshrined in collective bargaining in Germany with the conclusion of a new works agreement
agreements with employee representatives, for example, for the future. In particular, this involved detailed agree-
and in a combined works agreement governing how crisis ments to give practical shape to participation by the
situations are dealt with. As a responsible employer, we
want to cooperate with the employee representatives in the
G 28
interest of our associates to find constructive solutions to
save jobs. new hires
Bosch Group by region, in %, as of December 31, 2024
As the various business units and locations are affected in
different ways by current developments, we create targeted
Asia Pacific Europe
solutions. One example is the dedicated platforms that (including other (without
countries, also Germany)
have been specifically set up for Bosch to refer associates in Africa) 35.5
internally (potentially after training) or externally to other 23.2
employers. Beyond that, we prioritize adjustments based
Americas
on natural turnover, early retirement, and voluntary redun- 28.8
Germany
dancy on the basis of severance pay. We also give our asso- 12.5
ciates the opportunity to reduce their weekly working hours
and take on part-time work.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
58
employee representatives and individual committees in the Collaboration with employee representatives
transformation of the business sector. In addition, a sup- Bosch has a tradition of maintaining open and constructive
porting collective bargaining agreement provides for imple- dialogue with employee representatives. We are convinced
mentation of target vision processes at the Mobility loca- that it is only with their cooperation that we can implement
tions in Germany that are bound by collective bargaining the change processes needed to secure our competitive-
agreements. Social partnership at Bosch will be further in- ness. We therefore continuously seek to consult and involve
tensified by the agreements made – after all, industrial the employee representatives in the process at the earliest
transformation in the mobility sector can only succeed with possibility. As part of a transparent and open information
the cooperation of all partners. and communication policy, briefings are provided in a timely
manner and with due regard to the relevant facts and na-
tional regulations.
Training and placement
The framework for cooperation with employee representa-
Against the backdrop of the company’s transformation,
tives as well as the corresponding agreements are defined
we are stepping up our initiatives for training and the
by internal company policies. Among other matters, they lay
placement of our associates across different business
fields. Our “People Acquisition Campus” and “Mission down regulations in accordance with ILO conventions 87
to Move” programs set up in 2018 have provided over and 98, which guarantee workers’ freedom of association
3,000 associates from our powertrain business with fur- and the right to collective bargaining. They also provide for
ther qualifications, opening up new career prospects for the appointment by the company of a negotiating partner for
them. In 2024, we extended these programs to the entire existing employee representatives. The person appointed
Mobility business sector. The initiatives also extend must have wide-ranging powers of representation for the
beyond our own company. We have joined forces with
unit concerned, is appointed through a formal process, and
around 70 companies in the “Allianz der Chancen” to be
is responsible for collaborating with the relevant employee
able to move people directly from job to job. In addition,
representative body.
we already provide our associates with corresponding
placement offers at seven locations through our in-house
Particularly the colleagues responsible in the regions en-
professional placement service.
gage locally with employee representatives and the relevant
We proactively support the digital transformation as well
organizations. At the same time, we are continuously com-
through various initiatives, such as “LernWerk,” “Digi-
mitted to making progress in the respective countries. Any
tal Talent Academy,” and “Wissensfabrik,” and enable
restrictions on the rights of employee representatives are
various target groups in manufacturing and occupational
identified in particular in cooperation with the combined
training to acquire the corresponding skills.
works council and the European and international employee
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
59
representatives. If there are obstacles at local level to im- Bosch has also concluded collective bargaining agreements
plementing our standards, the HR corporate department in numerous countries outside Germany, both within the EU
deals with the issue and works toward finding a solution and elsewhere, including Turkey, Malaysia, Serbia, Japan,
that achieves the greatest possible consensus according to and India. European works councils provide institutional-
our principles. ized cross-border employee representation in Europe. In
accordance with the respective national regulations, there
An established process is in place for handling complaints are local employee representatives in many other countries,
by the international network of employee representatives. such as China and India, for example.
Individual cases are handed over, for example, by the chair
of the European works council of the Bosch Group to the Associates are informed about collective bargaining and the
responsible corporate office, the board of management, or corresponding agreements through notices and digital me-
the supervisory board. dia. Trade union rights are safeguarded and taken into ac-
count at works meetings, among other things. Trade unions
Collective bargaining agreements can also inform the workforce using notices and posters.
Practically all Bosch sites in Germany have a works council
and the associates are subject to works agreements. Only a Regular surveys of associates
few small units are the exception to the rule. Collective bar- If Bosch’s transformation process is to be mastered suc-
gaining agreements are in effect for practically all units at cessfully, it is essential that the corporate culture also
Bosch in Germany, covering approximately 116,000 associ- evolves. We are convinced that clear and purpose-driven
ates, or around 90 percent of the workforce. feedback from associates is the key to lasting improvement.
Our impact: feedback landscape gives the workforce the
On account of the general validity of original national or opportunity to express their opinions and initiate change
combined works agreements, even for locations without a (see G 29).
works council, all associates of Bosch in Germany are also
covered by collective agreements. The only exception to this As a full global survey, the Bosch Pulse Check is used to
rule are senior executives. measure associate satisfaction, among other things. The
results are analyzed at higher levels, for example by divi-
sion, country, location, or management area. The survey
was conducted for the first time in 2024 and is to be re-
peated annually.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
60
The results at Group level show high approval ratings for Remuneration and social benefits
well-being at work, sense of belonging, loyalty, and em- Bosch sees itself as a hands-on social partner that actively
ployer attractiveness. There is potential for improvement in helps shape agreements, creates attractive framework con-
the areas of appreciation, future prospects and leadership. ditions, and offers its associates pay that reflects perfor-
mance and market conditions.
Once a year, Bosch also surveys its executives worldwide on
current strategic topics in the context of the Executive Pulse Basic principles of the remuneration system
Check. The survey results are elaborated together with rec- Bosch has established principles applicable worldwide
ommended actions for the board of management. They are governing fair pay in line with market conditions26. The basic
also shared with all participating executives and are used as principles of the remuneration system are defined in inter-
a basis for dialogue between supervisors and associates. nal company regulations. We want to ensure an attractive
Other survey elements are available in the feedback land- remuneration level in line with market conditions for all as-
scape, if required, as in-depth content on important topics sociates and strengthen our competitive position, while en-
such as leadership, teamwork or well-being at work. abling the adjustment of remuneration systems to local
conditions in response to the increasing volatility of mar-
kets. As a consequence, within the framework of the defined
G 29
basic principles, differences can arise in the remuneration
elements of the “impact:” feedback landscape systems of individual operating units, regions, countries,
and locations.
impact:leadership
If the requirements and tasks are comparable, Bosch makes
Our feedback on leader -
impact:experience ship within the team no distinction in the remuneration level for male and female
Our feedback on our associates. Individual pay arrangements comprise fixed and
experience as a Bosch variable components and typically reflect the requirements
associate in key impact:well-being
moments of our career of the given job. Performance-related or market-specific as-
Our feedback on our
pects are also taken into account for some groups of associ-
well-being
ates. In the case of groups of associates subject to rules
impact:strategy
comparable with collective bargaining agreements, remu-
Our feedback on neration models are adapted to local and regional regula-
strategy, culture, and impact:team
transformation tions. All statutory minimum wage regulations in individual
Our feedback on
countries are complied with in full.
collaboration within
the team and team
development
26 To achieve a remuneration level in line with the market, Bosch follows the
market average for comparable tasks. As a rule, the data is based on a survey
of the overall market conducted by a global service provider.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
61
Worldwide standards also apply to management remunera- Flexible working conditions
tion at Bosch. Individual bonuses were replaced by a collec- Bosch wants to empower its associates to structure their
tive profit participation model for management back in 2016. working time individually while addressing business re-
quirements in the best possible way. Accordingly, many dif-
Basic principles for company pension promises and ferent working time models are used in the Bosch Group
other social benefits across all hierarchy levels, including part-time work or job
Bosch makes commitments to its associates worldwide in sharing. Mobile working is also now standard practice at
relation to occupational benefits, such as company pension Bosch. Associates in all countries can and should benefit
schemes. The basic principles for granting, arranging, and from the increased flexibility, assuming their particular role
financing these pension benefit promises are laid down in permits this.
internal company regulations. Promises of pension benefits
are structured consistently for all income groups within a Other agreements and benefits
company or for all companies in a country. In addition, we We help our associates strike a work-life balance by creating
offer our associates other social benefits, such as a com- a work environment that is as flexible as possible. Further-
pany healthcare scheme (see also the “Occupational health more, we offer childcare at specific locations as well as the
and safety” section). option to take parental leave or leave of absence to care for
family members. In addition, they can take sabbaticals, spe-
Work-life balance
Bosch supports its associates in striking a balance between
T 11
their individual career goals, personal life-style, and private
goals. With this in mind, we are working on further flexibili- Part-time associates
zation of when and where associates work in compliance Bosch Group 2023–2024, by region and by gender
with legal requirements.
2023 2024
Our guidelines for a flexible and family-friendly work culture Bosch Group 25,875 21,420
cover, among other aspects, a fast return to work after a pe- By region
riod of leave, job sharing, or part-time leadership. These Europe (without Germany) 5,686 4,934
guidelines have meanwhile been introduced in many coun- Germany 18,905 15,671
tries or adapted to country-specific requirements. Various Americas 626 613
working time models have also been introduced in this con-
Asia-Pacific (incl. other
text (especially mobile working and part-time work), for ex- countries, also in Africa) 658 202
ample in China, India, Mexico, and the United States. By gender
Female 14,842 14,026
Male 11,033 7,394
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
62
cial leave, or paid leave in special circumstances. In princi- 20.0 percent). The aim is that by 2030 at least one in four
ple, the aforementioned offers are also available to associ- leadership positions at Bosch worldwide is held by a
ates with time-limited employment contracts. woman.
Diversity, equity, and inclusion On account of legal requirements in Germany, targets apply
At Bosch we value the uniqueness of every human being and for the proportion of women on the supervisory board, on
consider diversity to be critical to our business success. the board of management, and in the first two management
Each and every individual in the company should feel wel- tiers below the board of management at Robert Bosch
come, respected, and appreciated, regardless of factors GmbH and the co-determined subsidiaries based in Ger-
such as gender, origin, age, personal background, or indi- many. For further details, see the 2024 annual report (page
vidual life path. 40 et seq.).
We are convinced that teams with a range of vantage points, We offer comprehensive seminar and mentoring programs
educational and cultural backgrounds, as well as personal for women who hold or would like to hold specialist, proj-
qualities often produce better results and that mutual ap- ect, and executive positions. They can also exchange views
preciation of all associates is beneficial for the work climate. and ideas in networks like women@bosch and the heratec
That is why diversity, equity, and inclusion are firmly an-
chored in our “Be#LikeABosch” mission statement.
G 30
Bosch became a signatory to the Diversity Charter as early Proportion of women
as 2007. Our Code of Conduct, too, underscores that Bosch Bosch Group 2022–2024, in %
respects and protects the personal dignity of each individ-
ual, tolerates neither discrimination nor harassment, and
promotes diversity, equity, and inclusion.
28.9 Bosch Group
28.8 28.8
Dimensions of diversity 25.0 Board of management
In order to do justice to the different dimensions of diversity, of Robert Bosch GmbH
we are actively involved in various topic areas: 19.2 20.0 20.4 Management
16.7 16.7
▶ Gender
We want to further increase the proportion of women in our
total workforce, which is currently 28.9 percent (prior year:
28.8 percent). We also want to further increase the propor-
tion of women in leadership positions, which – across all
2022 2023 2024
management levels – is currently at 20.4 percent (prior year:
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
63
network of female engineers and gain inspiration for their ▶ Cultural diversity
everyday professional lives. External networks and events People from around 150 nations work together for Bosch.
as part of Bosch memberships expand the range of opportu- This diversity allows us to successfully cooperate with our
nities for professional and interdisciplinary exchange among customers, partners, and suppliers worldwide. Intercul-
women. For example, Bosch is a member and cooperation tural competencies are demanded every day. We therefore
partner of the international Women Automotive Network, reinforce international collaboration and use our cultural
which has set itself the goal of supporting women in the au- diversity to further advance Bosch as a company. Our asso-
tomotive industry. Representatives from Bosch took part in ciates show their commitment too through their involvement
two meetings in 2024, one in Detroit, in the U.S., and the in numerous networks around the world, such as Afric@
other in Stuttgart, Germany. Bosch, Asians@Bosch, Hispanics@Bosch, For Bosch
abroad, and the Turkish Forum.
In Germany, Bosch is also a long-standing partner of the
Women Leadership Network PANDA and was also repre- ▶ Physical and mental abilities
sented by several female executives at the network’s annual We increase our innovative strength by focusing on our as-
summit in Frankfurt am Main in 2024. Bosch wants to use sociates’ individual potential – not on their limitations. We
activities like these to appeal to women, particularly in re- therefore create an inclusive work environment that consid-
cruiting, and attract them to the company. ers and appreciates individual needs and skills, in the
▶ Generations
G 31
We create a work environment that fosters successful,
cross-generational collaboration adapted to the different total workforce by age group
life stages. In this way, we want to seize the opportunities Bosch Group by region, in %, as of December 31, 2024
that the combination of diverse experiences, competencies,
and perspectives of the different age groups can provide. 28.1 24.6 8.2
We create the conditions for this through our lifelong learn-
ing concepts, occupational health management system,
and systematic sharing of experience and know-how through
the BestAger@Bosch associate network.
57.8 52.5 64.4
Over 50s
Aged 30–50
Under 30s
14.2 22.9 27.4
Europe Americas Asia Pacific (including other
countries, also in Africa)
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
64
realization that inclusion can only succeed if prejudices and The team sets the framework by providing a global strategy
reservations are overcome and the issue is addressed con- and advising, supporting, and networking people and activi-
tinually. We are committed to the inclusion of people with ties throughout the group. The team members are also en-
restricted abilities in internal (e.g. BeAdept@Bosch) and gaged outside of the company (see www.bosch.com/diver-
external networks and acknowledge our social responsibil- sity). The project team cooperates closely with the Booster
ity in this area. Board, which includes colleagues representing different
countries, organizations, and hierarchy levels. It serves as a
At 5.5 percent, the proportion of people with severe disabi- sparring partner for the project team and as a multiplier.
lities in the Bosch Group in Germany in 2024 remained at a More than 140 coordinators worldwide as well as the nu-
level comparable to the previous year. merous members of internal company networks also sup-
port the project team in embedding topics of diversity, eq-
▶ LGBTQIA+ uity, and inclusion within the organization and making them
At Bosch, all associates are valued – irrespective of their visible.
sexual orientation or gender identity. The b:proud associate
network helps create an open corporate culture. In 2017, it Bosch Diversity Days and Global Disability
launched the LGBT*IQAlly initiative. Allies are associates Conference
from all business sectors whose role is to openly address Bosch organizes Diversity Days each year in order to raise
possible incidents of bias or discrimination to help shape awareness of diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout the
the transition to an open work culture. company and to demonstrate the strength the company and
its associates can derive from these topics. More than
Goal management and implementation 135 online and in-person events took place worldwide in
Back in 2011, Bosch established a central project team to 2024 with the motto “Be open”. Not only did this create a
promote diversity, equity and inclusion within the company shared sense of belonging across all career stages and bor-
and embed the related commitment within the organization. ders, it also raised awareness of diversity at Bosch.
Project management reports directly to the member of the
board of management with responsibility for human re- The Global Disability Conference took place for the third
sources and social welfare. time in a row in 2024 under the motto #BeyondLimits. Inter-
nal and external speakers shared their experiences and
knowledge at more than 20 online and in-person events.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
65
Learning and development ▶ Contribution dialogue27
New or changing business models and the use of digital As part of the annual performance review, executives and
technologies require our company to consistently adapt and associates look back over what was achieved in the past
transform. Our associates are called upon in this regard to year, and jointly discuss targets for the year ahead. Around
continually acquire new competencies and skills and to 246,600 such dialogues were held in 2024.
adapt their qualifications and training to current and future
requirements. Bosch supports them in this through compe- ▶ Development dialogue27
tence management and various learning programs. The development dialogue takes place between associates
and their line manager, the next higher executive, and their
Associate development HR business partner. It deals with the associate’s medium-
Competence management at Bosch is a systematic process to long-term development goals and sets out the course for
for identifying professional and methodological compe- their achievement. Around 3,800 development dialogues
tences and helping associates to develop. In this way, we were held in 2024.
want to ensure that the required competencies, in other
words the attributes, skills, and behavior, which are key to ▶ Talent and associate review
successfully dealing with current and future tasks, are avail- Once a year, executives, experts, and HR Business Partners
able in the right place at the right time. Our competence discuss the potential of their associates in order to identify
model is defined in internal company regulations and sets and advance talent at an early stage.
the framework for recruitment, feedback talks, assessment
of potential, and support programs. It comprises four com- ▶ Talent Pool
petence areas: entrepreneurial competence, leadership Talent Pool members take part in training programs to pre-
competence, interpersonal competence, and professional pare for the requirements of the next-higher level and have
competence. the opportunity to network across sectors. In 2024, the Tal-
ent Pool included roughly 9,900 associates, the largest
The competence model is applied in different formats that number yet since the platform was established.
support our associates in their personal development:
27 Since the end of 2024, the annual performance review (formerly the goal and
performance dialogue) and the associate development dialogue (formerly the
career and development dialogue) have been applied in a revised form.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
66
Lifelong learning strategy experts in a self-managed format. Since the corresponding
As a “learning company,” Bosch supports a ongoing learning licenses were introduced in 2019, around 67,200 have been
process with forward-thinking, motivational, and easily ac- used by associates.
cessible learning programs that allow associates to quickly
and flexibly acquire the necessary knowledge. We ▶ Self-managed learning and mutual learning
strengthen the employability of our associates in this way, There are a variety of learning formats, some informal or
help shield Bosch from the shortage of available skilled la- self-managed by associates, in which participants can share
bor, and secure the company’s capacity for innovation and their knowledge in a network. Internal learning platforms
competitive position into the future. leverage the expert knowledge available at Bosch anywhere
and anytime. “Days of Learning” are also held annually in
Internal company regulations define the competence devel- various business sectors.
opment process. This requires all organizational units to
derive strategic competencies and learning needs from the In 2024, Bosch invested 252 million euros (prior year: 277
corporate strategy and to define role-based curricula, which million euros) in training for its associates. Our associates
are then assigned to associates and tracked during imple- attended a total of 729,679 training days in 2024 in the form
mentation. The following strategic objectives are being of seminars and webinars (prior year: 827,968 training days).
pursued:
▶ Smart learning via digital platforms
We invest in digital learning platforms and harness the pos-
G 32 G 33
sibilities of artificial intelligence to constantly offer our as-
sociates suitable learning opportunities. This allows them training activities Average training days
to acquire new knowledge faster than before at a time and Bosch Group 2021–2024 Bosch Group 2021–2024, without BSH Hausgeräte GmbH
place that suits them and at their own pace. In-person semi-
nars are transformed into “learning journeys,” consisting of 827,968
various digital or social learning formats that can be com- 821,778
729,679Training days 3.61
pleted individually or in groups. By 2030, 40 percent of the
3.43
roughly 8,000 training measures are to be converted into 599,046 2.83 2.72 Associates with
modular or smart learning formats. leadership responsibility
2.30
2.00
Online learning platforms (e-universities) offer our associ- 1.65 Associates without
ates access to a variety of learning content and the means to 280 277 252 Expenditure leadership responsibility
on training 1.23
203
obtain knowledge from external science and business [in million euros]
2021 2022 2023 2024 2021 2022 2023 2024
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
67
These training measures are usually based on target-group- As of the end of 2024, 241 out of the 252 relevant production
specific curricula set for associates with standardized pro- locations and development locations (with material respon-
files. At present, there are around 3,500 (prior year: 3,500 sibility) had already implemented an occupational health
curricula) such curricula, while roughly 190,000 (prior year: and safety management system according to ISO 45001, of
174,400) associates use at least one learning curriculum for which 97 percent had been certified (see T 12). As a result,
their training. around 99 percent of the workforce currently work at pro-
duction locations and development locations (with material
All training measures are systematically evaluated. The as- responsibility) that have an implemented occupational
sociate feedback is made available to the providers and health and safety management system. Our approach re-
taken into account in revisions. In addition, the Learning mains to use certified occupational health and safety man-
Management System permits effectiveness audits in accor- agement systems at all relevant locations.
dance with ISO for all formal training measures. Target
group-specific curricula aligned to the competencies re- By the end of 2025, we aim to lower the number of work-re-
quired by specific workforce groups are revised each year lated accidents at Bosch to 1.45 accidents per 1 million
and adapted accordingly as requirements change. hours worked. In the reporting year, the accident rate was
1.46 accidents per 1 million hours worked (prior year: 1.49).
Occupational health and safety Regrettably, an employee of an external company died in an
Measures to protect and promote associates’ health and accident in 2024. We set up a working group at the end of
provide a safe working environment at all times are a top 2024 to focus on accident prevention at external companies.
priority for Bosch. Internal company regulations define the
relevant principles, organization and responsibilities within
the Bosch Group. T 12
Occupational health and safety management
The Sustainability and EHS corporate department manages systems (OhSMS)
occupational health and safety at Bosch using a group-wide Bosch Group 2024
process. The heads of the organizational units and company
Production locations and development
locations are responsible for compliance with the centrally
locations28 252
defined requirements and goals. Designated EHS officers
Occupational health and safety management
support them in this task. Current progress toward goal system implemented according to ISO 45001 241
achievement is reported regularly to all executives as well Occupational health and safety management
as the board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH, also system certified according to ISO 45001 234
on an ad hoc basis in the event of particularly serious
incidents.
28 The following applies to information on the occupational health
and safety management systems: production locations and
development locations (with material responsibility) with more
than 50 associates and that have been included in the consoli-
dated group for more than three years.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
68
Based on the already clearly defined responsibilities and Based on internal regulations, workplace or activity-related
processes, the working group aims to develop additional hazard assessments are also carried out regularly. These
meas ures to prevent accidents when using external are used as a basis for determining any preventive and pro-
companies. tective measures needed, and our associates are instructed
accordingly.
Risk assessment
Every year, we identify and assess potential occupational Clearly defined regulations governing responsibilities and
safety risks and classify them by priority. For this purpose, processes apply to occupational safety also when we use
we refer to accidents reported in the Incident Management external companies at our sites. These apply right from the
System and use findings from internal audits under ISO outset when we select a service provider. In this regard, we
45001 or the audits of the internal audit department. On this have set down key EHS requirements for suppliers in our
basis, we develop specific risk mitigation programs and de- Terms and Conditions of Purchase. Our service providers
fine the focal points for subsequent audits. We carry out an also agree to name a person in charge of ensuring compli-
in-depth analysis of any work-related accidents causing at ance with the supervision and control duty. As part of inter-
least one day of downtime, irrespective of whether Bosch nal audits, we check whether the requirements and defined
associates or third-party staff are involved. In the event of protective measures are being complied with. In the event of
serious accidents, special analysis methods are used to per- discrepancies, appropriate remedial measures must be
form a detailed investigation of the root causes and to derive taken before proceeding with the work.
specific measures.
Training and awareness-raising
G 34
It is our conviction that occupational safety begins with each
Work-related accidents individual’s awareness of deficits and their behavior. This is
Bosch Group 2022–2024 where we see the greatest potential for improvement, which
is why we are focusing on measures to raise the awareness

of our associates for occupational health and safety mat-
ters. To do this, we organize campaigns with a different fo-
cus each year in addition to our EHS competence manage-
ment and regular instructions and training. As in the past
1,153 1,073
1,077 Work-related accidents few years, in 2024 we again focused on the early detection of
dangerous situations and hazards (hazard recognition).
1.46 Work-related accidents
1.62 1.49
[per 1 million hours
worked]
2022 2023 2024
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
69
We already established a working group in 2023 to focus on Safety culture from the heart
accidents involving associates in customer support. This
Various campaigns at company locations raise the awareness of our associ-
group develops measures aimed at preventing accidents
ates for occupational health and safety matters. The Mexican site in San Luis
that occur during activities at the customer’s premises. With
Potosí not only addressed the workforce, but also the next generation under
the working group on accident prevention for external com-
the motto “Safety culture from the heart”. While the parents were able to
panies established in 2024, we are covering another impor- interactively experience the effects of working without concentration in a
tant area of accident occurrence. model house for unsafe situations, a range of activities took place for the
associates’ children. They were trained to operate fire extinguishers and were
Prevention and health promotion able to take part in a first aid course. They also had the opportunity to leave
Each individual’s health is of vital importance both for our a video message about safety for their parents – a measure that has contrib-
associates’ motivation and satisfaction and thus for Bosch uted to the long-term success of the campaign. While more than half of all
occupational safety incidents were caused by individual misconduct in 2022,
as a responsible employer. As a person’s health depends on
the figure was only one third in 2024.
many factors, associates and the company work together to
ensure a comprehensive approach to occupational health.
Occupational health management at Bosch covers a broad As part of our integrated approach to health management,
range of topics under the title “befit.” These range from pre- strategic guidelines were published to better meet the
ventive medical care and physical and mental fitness to needs and tackle the challenges in the individual regions
mental health and right through to tips on a healthy diet and and company locations. The goal is for all health experts to
workplace layout. An important role is also played by our work together as part of a network and to establish a central
reintegration management, leadership, training, and com- point of contact for health issues at the company locations.
petence development in relation to individuals’ health, as
well as the integration of people with reduced capacity to Occupational health measures and projects at the individ-
work and severe disabilities. In Germany and other coun- ual company locations are tailored to their size and respec-
tries, medical care is provided in the workplace by an inter- tive needs. As the challenges differ from one country to the
nal network of occupational health services with the sup- next, we manage the activities locally – for example in Bra-
port of external providers. In addition, many company zil, China, India, the United Kingdom, or Romania. Regular
locations have specialists on workplace layout, in-house online network meetings enable the leveraging of synergies
social services, and health management to answer health- between locations and also across borders in order to offer
related questions. associates the broadest and most attractive range of ser-
vices possible. In countries without full medical coverage,
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
70
Bosch has established partnerships with clinics at many Specialist presentations across locations
company locations. In addition, digital platforms are offered
In 2024, Bosch hosted monthly digital specialist presenta-
that provide associates with information on contacts and
tions by internal and external health experts. In addition
activities as well as media libraries with a wide range of
to physical and mental health, the topics also included
health topics. social health, for example, the effects of cohesion. A large
number of associates also took advantage of the opportu-
BSH Hausgeräte GmbH operates its own occupational nity to participate in one of the many in-person events that
health management globally with “Health@BSH,” which is took place at Bosch sites in more than 20 countries.
based very closely on “befit” in terms of its approach.
OncoCure – cancer support
Occupational health focal points Bosch works in collaboration with the Robert Bosch
In order to reduce the number of absentees due to sickness, hospital in Stuttgart in the framework of the OncoCure
occupational health management at Bosch sets specific pri- program to offer associates diagnosed with cancer the
orities based on the experience of the medical service and possibility of getting a second, independent opinion from
safety engineers as well as the health report issued by the specialists at the Robert Bosch Center for Tumor Diseases
Bosch company health insurance fund, and the insights (RBCT) and, if appropriate, a genetic diagnosis. Associates
in Germany, Spain, Austria, and Switzerland can currently
from the surveys carried out as part of impact:wellbeing.
avail of the new offer.
Insights from occupational reintegration management and
hazard assessments are also considered. As a result, medi-
cal conditions affecting the musculoskeletal and respiratory
systems as well as mental illnesses were identified as focus
areas. So-called health working groups are responsible for
implementation at the individual company locations. Vari-
ous structures and programs exist to maintain and promote
mental health. The aim is effective prevention of mental ill-
ness and effective treatment and reintegration of associates
with mental illness. Associates have access to a wide range
of information and advice options through the digital health
platforms and on-site advisory services. In Germany, in-
house social services should be highlighted, which offer as-
sociates support in the event of psychosocial stress. The
occupational physicians are also available as a first point of
contact.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Bosch as an employer
71
Complying with due diligence obligations
relating to human rights and the environment
For us, respecting human rights means fulfilling our due dili- Our business activity is aligned to the United Nations Guid-
gence obligations to protect people and the environment, ing Principles on Business and Human Rights and we com-
taking the relevant social and environmental standards into ply with the requirements of the National Action Plan for
account. This is because as an industrial company with pro- Business and Human Rights applicable in Germany. We im-
duction locations and supply relationships in many coun- plement the requirements of the German Act on Corporate
tries and regions, we influence the situation of people and Due Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains (Lieferketten-
the environment in a variety of different ways. sorgfaltspflichtengesetz, LkSG). The corresponding report
and our statement of principle on human rights are available
Bosch has supply relationships in around 60 countries. online.
From a total of around 35,000 suppliers worldwide, the
Bosch Group procured materials and services worth We likewise expect our business partners to commit to re-
49.8 billion euros in 2024 (prior year: 50.9 billion euros). A spect human rights, to establish appropriate due diligence
large proportion of the resources used in our supply chain processes, and to oblige their own suppliers and other third
are purchased components – mostly semi-finished products parties to comply with corresponding principles to the best
or finished components. We only procure a small proportion of their ability.
directly as raw material.
Risk management for implementing
As a globally operating company, we recognize our corpo- corporate due diligence obligations
rate responsibility to respect human rights. We contribute The Bosch Group has established a risk management sys-
to improving human rights conditions worldwide by imple- tem for the implementation of corporate due diligence obli-
menting due diligence obligations concerning human rights gations in accordance with the German Act on Corporate
in our operational processes. At the same time, we actively Due Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains to ensure com-
demand respect for human rights in our global supply chains pliance with human rights and environment-related due dili-
as well and take appropriate remedial measures in the case gence obligations. The system is directed both at the ac-
of violations. tions of the Bosch Group in its own operations and the
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
72
activities of our suppliers, and is described clearly and bind- If necessary, the corresponding regulations also have to be
ingly in internal company regulations. Implementation of enhanced. The organizational units concerned implement
the requirements is audited regularly. the requirements of the responsible corporate depart-
ments, develop preventive measures, and establish reme-
With its own governance system, BSH Hausgeräte GmbH dial measures in the event that a breach of human rights or
plays an independent role within the Bosch Group. It has environment-related obligations is sufficiently probable or
accordingly drawn up its own set of rules for implementing has already occurred.
corporate due diligence obligations. In terms of broad
guidelines, however, the risk management system defined The human rights committee convenes twice a year under
therein corresponds to the risk management system de- the chair of the human rights officer. It is made up of the
scribed below, which otherwise applies to the Bosch Group. heads of the responsible corporate departments and other
corporate departments with an advisory role (compliance,
Responsibilities risk management, legal affairs, communication). The com-
The internal implementation of corporate due diligence ob- mittee evaluates the effectiveness of the risk management
ligations is the responsibility of the corporate departments system and contributes to its further development.
of Robert Bosch GmbH and the organizational units con-
cerned in each case. The requirements for fulfilling the due The responsible corporate departments report proactively
diligence obligations are prescribed centrally and the orga- to the committee on the risk situation and the resulting mea-
nizational units concerned implement these requirements sures in their respective functional area. In addition, they
in their processes. report on a regular and, if required, ad hoc basis to the hu-
man rights officer on the status of the management system,
The responsible corporate departments enhance their own the risks identified, and the measures taken.
management systems, if necessary, within the scope of the
obligations placed on them. This includes defining imple- Overarching responsibility for the risk management system
mentation and control requirements, monitoring the con- was transferred to the member of the board of management
trols, performing annual or event-driven risk analyses, con- of Robert Bosch GmbH responsible for sustainability. The
ducting training, and supporting the organizational units in relevant information for exercising this role is made avail-
developing preventive and remedial measures. able to the board member, in particular, by the human rights
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
73
committee as well as by the human rights officer, who re- Since the Bosch Group’s updated Code of Conduct for Busi-
ports directly to the board member. The board member at- ness Partners was published in 2022, current suppliers of
tends the committee’s meetings regularly. Moreover, the in- direct materials are asked to actively confirm the Code of
dividual members of the human rights committee each have Conduct – by the end of 2024, around 82 percent of suppli-
direct reporting lines to the board of management. All com- ers contacted had already acknowledged the Code of Con-
pliance officers are furthermore obligated under the Bosch duct (prior year: 71 percent). We are seeking to achieve a
Group’s compliance management systems to inform the further increase in 2025 as well.
board of management once a year concerning the imple-
mentation of the due diligence obligations in their own func- Regarding indirect materials (material and goods that are
tional area. not directly related to products), we endeavor to have the
Code of Conduct acknowledged each time a contract is
Codes of conduct awarded. The current acknowledge rate is 99 percent (prior
Bosch’s Code of Conduct applies to all associates.29 It re- year: 97 percent). Considering the number and diversity of
quires them to comply with the relevant laws and internal our suppliers, should it happen that confirmation is out-
regulations. This is especially the case in relation to ensur- standing in some cases, we address these cases in the con-
ing respect for human rights. We provide regular training for text of our risk management.
associates on the content of the Code of Conduct. Clearly
defined requirements for our security personnel, training In terms of environmental protection, we expect our suppli-
programs on human rights, and far-reaching supervision ers to set up and continuously refine, within reason, an envi-
measures aim to prevent behavior that violates human rights ronmental management system certified to ISO 14001 or a
vis-à-vis our associates and third parties. suitable environmental management system for the indus-
try. In 2024, around 71 percent of our relevant direct materi-
Bosch’s Code of Conduct for Business Partners requires als suppliers (excluding BSH Hausgeräte GmbH) had such a
that our suppliers comply with social and environmental certificate (prior year: 69 percent). Suppliers without manu-
standards and is therefore critical for collaboration be- facturing operations are not required to adopt an environ-
tween our suppliers and Bosch.29 We also expect our suppli- mental management system of their own, but they do have
ers to use their best efforts to require their own suppliers to implement corresponding measures.
and other third parties to comply with the appropriate prin-
ciples. Further information on the Bosch Group’s Code of
Conduct and the Bosch Code of Conduct for Business Part-
ners can be found in the “Governance | Compliance”
section.
29 BSH Hausgeräte GmbH has developed its own Code of Conduct for
Associates and its own Code of Conduct for Suppliers.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
74
Complaints procedure Potential human rights and environment-
Our complaints procedure allows critical issues to be iden- related risks
tified at an early stage and thus potential human rights or We adhere to uniform principles throughout the Bosch
environment-related risks and violations to be uncovered, Group to prevent and mitigate risks. Individual elements of
counteracted, or remediated. We therefore regard our com- prevention are organized slightly differently in order to take
plaints procedure as an important element of our human account of the range of business models and supplier rela-
rights strategy, which helps us to continuously improve our tionships within the Bosch Group.
processes for respecting human rights.
The responsible corporate departments perform annual
Our suppliers are made aware of our reporting system in the and, if necessary, event-driven risk analyses in order to im-
Code of Conduct for Business Partners, among other prove understanding of human rights and environmental
means.30 By acknowledging this Code of Conduct, they impact, identify potential vulnerabilities, and develop suit-
agree, in particular, to establish a reporting system or to able preventive measures. This is done using standard eval-
participate in an industry-wide system. They also agree to uation methods to ensure comparability between the differ-
inform their associates accordingly. ent operating units. The risk analysis comprises four steps:
Further details on the complaints procedure, our reporting ▶ Risk identification
systems, and the number of reports received can be found The responsible corporate departments identify areas
in the “Governance | Compliance” section. where risks might occur. This could be a country, a plant or
a business partner. General risks in regions can be deter-
Exchange with stakeholders and right holders mined using indicators from independent institutions such
Bosch engages in regular exchanges with German and inter- as the World Bank or the United Nations. Risks can also be
national employee representatives, takes part in joint initia- derived from certain industrial activities or known critical
tives with NGOs (e.g. Sector Dialogue Automotive Industry), sectors. In addition, we also consider any indications of
and actively participates in public discourse. The company’s risks we receive from internal processes, such as the inter-
views are taken into account in preventive and remedial nal control system or internal audits, as well as from the
measures through its dialogue with suppliers and direct ex- public realm, from our partners in the supply chain, or
changes with associates of suppliers within the scope of through our reporting systems.
assessments. At the same time, we are continuously work-
ing to raise awareness of our reporting systems and com-
plaints procedures both in our own operations and in the
supply chain through targeted campaigns.
30 BSH Hausgeräte GmbH has developed its own Code of Conduct for
Suppliers and operates its own reporting system.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
75
▶ Risk assessment ▶ Measures
Risks are assessed using a uniform model and presented Should deficiencies arise in the risk management system,
according to a standardized scale at Bosch in order to en- adjustments must be made and relevant measures intro-
sure the comparability of the results. Assessment criteria duced in the responsible corporate departments to counter
include the potential severity and impact of a potential vio- these directly in the risk field concerned. In addition, risks
lation, the irremediability of consequences, and the likeli- that affect a number of functional areas or risk fields are
hood of a risk occurring. managed by the human rights committee for the entire
Bosch Group so that comprehensive measures can be
We adhere to clearly defined principles when assessing developed.
risks. The responsible corporate departments assess the
risks relating to their own business activities in a top-down We systematically review reports we receive through our
or bottom-up approach (e.g. through questionnaires), de- reporting systems, for example, or that arise within the con-
pending on the processes in question. We developed a grad- text of media monitoring and decide on the need for an
ing system for risks in the supply chain and use international event-driven risk analysis depending on the particular
indexes such as the Global Slavery Index or the ITUC Global findings.
Rights Index to assess the respective supplier’s potential
risk. A supplier’s sustainability performance – such as audit Potential risks for human rights in the company’s own
results, acceptance of the Code of Conduct for Business operations and at direct suppliers
Partners, or external certifications – is likewise included in Essential employee rights are derived from human rights,
the assessment and used to substantiate the results. which is why we also pay special attention to people’s situa-
tions at the workplace. First and foremost, we consider the
▶ Prioritization risks associated with forced labor within our own opera-
Risks are prioritized in each functional area with the aim of tions and at direct suppliers (tier 1), in line with the defini-
targeting the use of preventive measures and enhancing ex- tion of the International Labour Organization, (ILO Conven-
isting processes. The results of the risk assessment deter- tion 29, Article 2). The risk already identified in the 2023 risk
mine the prioritization within Bosch’s direct sphere of influ- analysis in connection with recruitment fees was substanti-
ence. Additional factors are considered in the supply chain ated by the 2024 risk analysis. Recruitment fees are pay-
such as the extent to which each supplier contributes to ments that employees have to make to employers or third
causing a risk and the possibilities Bosch has to exert parties as part of a recruitment chain in order to obtain a job.
influence. Such practices are often an indication of forced labor.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
76
To express Bosch’s rejection of such practices and to pro- In an analysis of raw materials, we identified 15 high-risk raw
tect our associates, we introduced a policy in 2024 that reg- materials that Bosch uses and launched specific risk-miti-
ulates the topic of recruitment at Bosch and contains spe- gating programs (see G 35). These programs are managed
cific stipulations that also cover the topic of recruitment by the Supply Chain Management and Sustainability and
fees. EHS corporate departments and implemented in the divi-
sions. A binding standard process has been established in
Potential risks for human rights further down the the purchasing departments for all identified raw materials.
supply chain Depending on the material-specific risks, specific visions
Raw materials extraction and its circumstances are often are defined accordingly for each high-risk raw material along
particularly risk-sensitive from an ecological and social its generic value chain. These visions reflect Bosch’s expec-
point of view. While Bosch itself only sources very few raw tations of its suppliers, such as a desired level of certifica-
materials directly, potentially high-risk raw materials are tion, and will be the focus of further corporate activities. In
processed in primary products and materials. 2024, for example, we conducted a specific CSR quick scan
of almost all direct suppliers and one of their tier-n suppli-
We want to mitigate risks related to human rights and the ers for the raw material lead.
environment that are inherent in raw materials extraction
through our involvement in various programs and measures. We continue to pursue the vision of establishing 100 percent
In the case of raw materials that can have adverse effects on certified smelters in our supply chains in the future and we
people and the environment, we also regularly review the communicate the associated ambition to our suppliers.
risk exposure and counteract potential risks, taking into ac- However, as scarcely any certification standards exist on
count the corresponding OECD guidelines and the legal the market as yet for many materials, we will continue to
framework conditions. closely monitor the situation so that we can take emerging
standards into account in our strategy in due course.
G 35
Handling conflict minerals
15 high-risk raw materials Bosch uses various instruments to reduce risks from the
area of conflict minerals. For example, we use specific risk
analyses based on reports from our reporting systems. Fur-
Cassiterite (tin) Lead Lithium
Coltan (tantalum) Graphite Manganese thermore, we have been using our Bosch Group Policy for
Tungsten Natural rubber Nickel Conflict Raw Materials since 2019 for the relevant suppli-
Gold Cobalt Platinum
ers. The policy describes our requirements for dealing with
Aluminum Copper Rare earth elements
the conflict minerals cassiterite (tin), coltan (tantalum),
tungsten and gold as an additional agreement.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
77
At the same time, we use reporting in accordance with the Responsible supply chain management
Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) to obtain transpar- Compliance with human rights and environment-related re-
ency about the proportion of certified smelters in the sup- quirements, such as those set out in our Codes of Conduct
ply chain. Bosch has been involved in RMI Conflict Minerals for Business Partners, already plays a crucial role when se-
Reporting and Cobalt Reporting since 2014. We are also lecting new suppliers and is a prerequisite for subsequently
working to ensure that suppliers of materials containing entering into a contractual relationship. The corresponding
conflict minerals or cobalt have the smelters in their supply timing and the audit methodology used are determined by
chains certified by the RMI. the respective purchasing organizations according to the
risk. As part of the sanctioned party list screening, a check
In 2024, the certification rate among smelters was 86 per- is additionally carried out prior to the conclusion of a con-
cent for coltan (tantalum) (prior year: 91 percent). At the tract to determine whether potential business partners are
same time, 66 percent (prior year: 67 percent) of tungsten included in sanction lists or affected by embargo
smelters are certified, while the rate for tin smelters lies at regulations.
74 percent (prior year: 80 percent). A proportion of 53 per-
cent of gold smelters are certified (prior year: 55 percent). If there is reasonable suspicion or concrete evidence of a
The reported certification rate for cobalt is 62 percent (prior violation of human rights or environment-related obliga-
year: 81 percent). tions by a supplier, we systematically investigate the facts of
the matter. If we discover breaches of duty, we work to en-
With respect to BSH Hausgeräte GmbH’s suppliers, the cer- sure that these are rectified immediately. Should this not be
tification rate among smelters is 97 percent for coltan (tan- possible in the foreseeable future, we expect the supplier to
talum) (prior year: 92 percent), 84 percent for tungsten present a plan and a specific time schedule for ending the
(prior year: 83 percent), and just under 90 percent for tin breach and minimizing its effects. We track and monitor im-
(prior year: 84 percent). A proportion of 77 percent of gold plementation of the measures – also by consistently re-
smelters (prior year: 80 percent) are certified, for cobalt the questing documented proof or by performing reassess-
rate is 85 percent (prior year: 77 percent). ments on site. Active suppliers found to be engaged in
unlawful conduct or whose sustainability performance is
On request, Bosch provides customers with the RMI’s Con- deemed inadequate, such as a lack of effort in dealing with
flict Minerals Reporting Template, which is recognized by human rights or environment-related requirements, may be
authorities such as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Com- excluded by Bosch from any further awarding of contracts.
mission. It can be obtained via established platforms, such If a supplier does not appear willing to fulfil our require-
as iPoint and HP CDX, or it can be sent to individual request- ments or introduce corresponding measures, Bosch re-
ing parties. serves the right to terminate the contractual relationship in
extreme cases.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
78
If there is reasonable suspicion of misconduct on the part of Quick scans are based on a checklist of specific criteria re-
an indirect supplier, we initiate targeted preventive mea- lating to the environment, occupational health and safety,
sures within the scope of our possibilities, such as controls and human rights. Supplementary questionnaires are used,
and, if necessary, appropriate remedial measures through for example, for selected material groups and logistics ser-
our business partners. vices. Quick scans are carried out by qualified Bosch associ-
ates from purchasing or quality functions, frequently as part
Assessment and monitoring of regular on-site visits to suppliers. In 2024, we conducted
We regularly audit our suppliers both preventively and when around 3,200 quick scans, maintaining the same level as the
the situation demands. Such an audit is generally carried prior year.
out when we commence new supplier relationships, with
the findings of our risk analyses then determining the type, Drill-deep assessments are used mainly in potentially high-
scope, and frequency of the audits. Different methods are risk regions or industries, or when there are any specific in-
used depending on the prevailing framework conditions and dications of non-compliance. Irrespective of any other visits
the specific risk situation: verifications performed by Bosch to suppliers, drill-deep assessments are carried out by in-
itself (quick scans and drill-deep assessments), third-party ternally licensed assessors and take between one and two
audits, and self-declarations by suppliers. days. They are announced so as to ensure that the required
experts – such as environmental or safety officers – are on-
site. Besides an in-depth assessment of the three areas
covered by quick scans – the environment, occupational
health and safety, and human rights – they also comprise an
G 36
Selected in-scope content of drill-deep assessments
Environmental Occupational Human rights Working Compliance
protection safety conditions
▶ Environmental ▶ Handling of hazard- ▶ Employee ▶ Observance of ▶ Violations of
management system ous substances representation work hours antitrust law
▶ Water treatment ▶ Hygiene ▶ Grievance ▶ Equal pay ▶ Current legal
▶ Waste management ▶ Fire safety mechanisms disputes
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
79
analysis of working conditions and compliance manage- Self-declarations are eligible as a means of checking suppli-
ment. The assessment covers the practical implementation ers where the risk is assumed to be low and there have been
as well as system-based requirements, such as in the form no issues in the past. The prerequisite is that the assessed
of guidelines, which allow conclusions to be drawn about risk of the group of suppliers or of the material group is que-
the maturity of the organization. The number of drill-deep ried and trustworthy documentation is provided to substan-
assessments depends on the risks identified and the corre- tiate that the questions have been truthfully answered.
sponding nominations, which is why the total number of as-
sessments carried out varies from year to year. In 2024, On aggregate, we assessed around 82 percent of our rele-
Bosch conducted around 75 drill-deep assessments at sup- vant direct materials suppliers (excluding BSH Hausgeräte
pliers (prior year: 120). GmbH) using the various methods by the end of 2024 (prior
year: 76 percent). We also assessed 77 percent of indirect
In addition to our supplier audits conducted by internal au- materials suppliers who are particularly relevant in terms of
ditors, we also draw on the results of compatible third-party country risk and field of materials risk (prior year: 85 per-
audits. This helps avoid multiple audits at our suppliers. cent). Most of these were on-site assessments.
One example of this is external audits according to the stan-
dard developed by the automotive industry’s Responsible The insights we have obtained from the various assess-
Supply Chain Initiative (RSCI), which Bosch is actively in- ments show that suppliers meet our requirements for the
volved in as a member. From 2025, Bosch will also be an af- most part. Improvements were required in individual cases,
filiate member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). and Bosch expects these to be implemented. Priority areas
Originally founded by the electronics industry as a non- in 2024 also concerned aspects of environmental protec-
profit organization, the internationally active alliance is tion as well as occupational health and safety, such as mark-
committed to good management practices that respect hu- ing escape routes, protecting work equipment and storing
man rights and promote transparency throughout the sup- hazardous substances properly.
ply chain. Members undertake to implement the RBA Code
of Conduct. External audits based on the RBA Code as a
comparable standard contribute to the monitoring of our
own management system and the fulfillment of due dili-
gence obligations to check human rights risks in the supply
chain.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
80
Training programs Bosch is involved both in VDA committees on sustainability,
Our associates in the purchasing function receive web- the Responsible Supply Chain Initiative (RSCI), and the
based as well as classroom training programs. All associ- “Sector Dialogue Automotive Industry“ of the German Fed-
ates in purchasing watch a mandatory training video that eral Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. We are also active
provides an overview of the current strategy in purchasing at a cross-company level in “econsense – Forum Nachhaltige
and the requirements for suppliers in terms of climate ac- Entwicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft e.V.” (Forum for Sus-
tion and human rights. Around 1,850 associates took part in tainable Development of German Business). Within the fo-
this training in 2024. rum’s “Human rights and supply chain” cluster, we work to-
gether with other partners on how to responsibly design
Another training module that has already been in place for global supply chains.
several years provides associates who manage suppliers
not only with a general overview of topics, but also with in-
formation on the requirements expected from suppliers and
the procedure for the quick scans in particular. We offer
training programs for suppliers so that they can further con-
solidate their knowledge of our expectations in relation to
the respect of human rights and environment-related stan-
dards. In 2024, the webinar on the topic of sustainability
was accessed around 2,500 times.
Stakeholder dialogue and involvement in associations
Bosch regularly presents awards to its best suppliers
around the world in recognition of their performance. The
Bosch Global Supplier Award is bestowed every two years;
the next award ceremony is planned for 2025. Suppliers
have been recognized for their performance in the “Sustain-
ability” category since 2021. Finalists in this category have
at least an “A-” rating from CDP and make an exemplary con-
tribution to climate action.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Complying with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and the environment
81
Responsibility to customers
Bosch products aim to impress thanks to their safety, qual- Our quality policy
ity, and reliability – regardless of where they are produced Due to our wide-ranging product portfolio, we apply a large
or used. In developing and manufacturing these products number of different laws and regulations worldwide gov-
and in rendering services, we stay true to our “Invented for erning quality assurance. Internal company policies create
life” mission statement beyond compliance with the law. a binding framework for setting quality objectives and
commit the organization to continuously work to improve
Our Product Compliance Management System (PCMS) is the quality management system. They also define the pro-
designed to satisfy all the regulatory requirements relevant cess for handling complaints and for solving problems
to our products in the respective market. It applies to all sustainably.
products (hardware, software, and services) within the re-
spective product life cycle and considers product-related The majority of our production locations and development
aspects such as health, safety, data protection, information locations have a quality management system certified ac-
security, cybersecurity, intellectual property, and environ- cording to ISO 9001. All sites that manufacture vehicle com-
mental protection. Our PCMS includes elements that help ponents are certified according to the IATF 16949 standard,
us to identify, monitor, control, and minimize risks related to which is based on ISO 9001 and was developed by the Inter-
product compliance. We give due regard to product compli- national Automotive Task Force (IATF).
ance throughout our entire supply chain.
Starting with product development, we attach great impor-
Product compliance is generally the responsibility of the tance to product safety and satisfy relevant standards, such
corporate department for quality. Reports are submitted to as ISO 12100 for the safety of machinery, ISO 26262 for the
the responsible member of the board of management at functional safety of systems in passenger vehicles, or IEC
least once a year. In addition, ad hoc reports are submitted 61508 for the functional safety of electrical and electronic
to the board of management and, if necessary, directly to systems. Products are not released for series production
the supervisory bodies. until all safety aspects have been fully clarified. In addition,
compliance with pertinent specifications must be estab-
lished and verified accordingly, for example through precau-
tionary tests.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Responsibility to customers
82
We perform product monitoring to the required extent We ensure that all business processes and products comply
throughout the entire product life cycle of safety-relevant with data protection regulations and that all necessary in-
products. Comprehensive training establishes the precon- formation security measures are implemented. This means
ditions for ensuring that everyone in the company is commit- that we comply with applicable law and respect the corre-
ted to, and puts into practice, Bosch’s quality standards – sponding contractual obligations. We strive to protect rele-
especially with regard to the provision of safe products. For vant information and in particular personal data from unau-
associates whose activities directly influence product qual- thorized disclosure, access, manipulation, and loss through
ity, we provide training programs on product safety and the use of technical and organizational measures adequate
product liability (see also the “Governance | Compliance” to the risk. We apply these information security measures
section). To deepen their knowledge, the product safety and when selecting, using, and operating IT solutions in close
product liability officers of the various divisions have access coordination with the applicable cybersecurity standards.
to more in-depth classroom and online training courses. As part of the development of Bosch products and new
business models, we ensure that the data protection and
Information and documentation information security regulations and requirements are taken
In addition to the existing information and documentation into account at an early stage and put into practice at each
obligations, we offer learning opportunities for users to stage.
help them to use the product correctly and operate it safely.
For example, Bosch Mobility Aftermarket offers learning op- Bosch uses a combined information security and data pro-
portunities for workshop associates, while Power Tools tection management system that is continuously maintained
provides appropriate opportunities for consumers. and updated. The system is aligned with international stan-
dards, such as ISO 27000, and also takes account of legal
Cybersecurity, information security, and requirements such as those pursuant to the General Data
data protection Protection Regulation (GDPR). The majority of company lo-
Cybersecurity, information security, and data protection are cations that manufacture vehicle components are certified
elementary components of our quality standards at Bosch. according to TISAX (level 3). Respective policies and inter-
We see trust in the security of products, systems, and data nal company regulations cover all relevant areas of cyberse-
as well as their resilience to attacks involving manipulation curity, information security, and data protection at Bosch.
as a crucial success factor in realizing our digitalization They comprise binding instructions for developing products
strategy. This also means dealing with personal data in a and services, the operation of servers and other IT systems,
responsible manner. as well as basic principles relating to company information
security and data protection.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Responsibility to customers
83
A cross-functional steering committee, which includes the relating to heating, ventilation and cooling systems. At the
chief data protection officer and the chief cybersecurity of- same time, we make use of various opportunities to engage
ficer, reports directly to the board of management twice a in direct and indirect dialogue with customers, for example
year. Furthermore, we have set up a separate corporate of- through our social media channels, service hotlines, by e-
fice that is responsible for the cybersecurity of our mail, or in direct talks. In fact, we view our customers’ feed-
products. back as a reliable yardstick against which we can measure
our actions.
A clearly documented process as well as a growing network
of experts ensure that cybersecurity, information security, Marketing and sponsorship
and data protection are widely integrated in the develop- When we market our products, we refer to our Bosch values
ment of our products. The associates regularly take part in for guidance as well as central principles, such as fairness
specialist training programs, workshops, and information and valuing cultural diversity. In addition, we are committed
events on current topics as part of their duties. to maintaining a quality level in all our marketing activities
that matches our products’ performance standards. In this
Bosch Product Security Incident Response Team respect, advertising can be humorous, creative, and com-
Despite all precautionary measures, however, there is no petitive. To ensure that these principles are applied and
such thing as absolute security in information technology. messages are consistent across the complete media mix
That is why we have established the Bosch Product Security worldwide, overarching marketing communication is orga-
Incident Response Team (PSIRT). The team serves as a cen- nized centrally and closely coordinated with the regional
tral point of contact for security researchers, partners, or companies and divisions. Sales-oriented product communi-
customers should they detect any vulnerabilities in our cation is mostly organized locally by the respective divi-
products. Security gaps can also be notified through our sions, but it also follows the defined principles.
reporting systems (see the “Governance | Compliance” sec-
tion). When a solution has been found, we make it transpar- Our sponsorship activities mainly serve promotional pur-
ent for our customers. poses, including strengthening our brand. They are gov-
erned by an internal regulation. This stipulates, among
Responsible advertising other things, that sponsorship measures must be integrated
The trust of our customers in our services and in the quality into an overall communications strategy or concept. The
of our products is our highest priority. The diverse customer objective of measures also has to be clearly defined and
services offered by our divisions range from knowledge da- focused on increasing brand recognition and reputation,
tabases with interactive learning programs as well as repair promoting sales, or attracting qualified talent. Corporate
and maintenance services through to a service portal for headquarters must be consulted for sponsorship measures
energy-related remediation and advice on subsidy rates in excess of 30,000 euros.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Responsibility to customers
84
Governance 4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
85
Compliance
Governance
Compliance with the principle of legality as well as responsible and
fair business practices are part of the Bosch values and a top priority
for our company.
Compliance
Compliance refers to the observance of legal requirements BSH Hausgeräte GmbH operates an independent compli-
and internal regulations. The global compliance manage- ance management system, which is likewise based on the
ment system (CMS) is an integral part of the measures for IDW PS 980 methodology and is supported by its own
implementing corporate governance in the Bosch Group global compliance organization.
and comprises structures and processes for the organiza-
tional safeguarding of compliance requirements. It is based Organization and regulations
on auditing standard IDW PS 980 and is described in an in- Robert Bosch GmbH’s board of management has assigned
ternal regulation. responsibility for the implementation of corporate gover-
nance in key compliance areas to specific corporate depart-
In addition to rule-based compliance, we are continuing to ments. They implement corporate governance for the com-
develop the values-based approach. Our ambition is that pliance area assigned to them throughout the Bosch Group.
our associates not only regard values-based conduct as an In doing so, they take the requirements of the risk manage-
obligation, but that they act in a compliant manner of their ment system and the internal control system into account.
own volition. The CMS is preventive in nature and is de-
signed to encourage all associates in the Bosch Group to The compliance committee supports the implementation of
identify compliance risks and violations at an early stage the Bosch Group’s CMS and coordinates compliance areas.
and to respond appropriately. This should also ensure a re- In addition, it contributes to the risk-based further develop-
duction in risks for the Bosch Group, its associates, and its ment of the CMS. The compliance committee comprises the
corporate bodies. At the same time, we want to protect and heads of the Compliance Management, Legal, Internal
cultivate the reputation of the Bosch Group, which is the
basis of our customers’ and business partners’ trust.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
86
Compliance
Auditing, HR, Risk Management, and Quality Management unrestricted authority to demand information and perform
corporate departments. A sanctions committee decides on investigations, are independent in exercising their duties,
recommendations for disciplinary measures in the event of and bound only by the instructions of the Compliance Man-
serious compliance incidents. agement corporate department. In Germany, the divisions
are supported directly by the Compliance Management
The compliance committee is chaired by the chief compli- corporate department; internal investigations are carried
ance officer, who also heads the Compliance Management out by an independent organizing body within the Compli-
corporate department, which is responsible for the compli- ance Management corporate department.
ance area of anti-corruption as well as for the compliance
area of information security and data protection, and for Implementation of corporate governance within the frame-
overarching key elements of the Bosch Group’s CMS (e.g. work of the CMS is reviewed in the course of internal audits
compliance training, operating and further developing performed by the Internal Auditing corporate department.
Bosch’s reporting system, serving as a point of contact for In addition, we review our CMS in the context of external
reports of misconduct, and conducting internal investiga- audits and consulting engagements and take the results as
tions). The chief compliance officer reports, both regularly an opportunity to further develop and optimize our CMS.
and on an ad hoc basis, directly to the member of the board
of management of Robert Bosch GmbH responsible for Risk-based compliance checks
compliance. A comprehensive written report is prepared We conduct global analyses of corruption and antitrust law
once a year. If necessary, the chief compliance officer is also risks based on a regular cycle. In 2024, we repeated the
entitled to contact the chair of the supervisory board analysis and also included checks of money laundering
directly. risks.
The supervisory board’s audit committee discusses the ap- The risk analysis covered 258 legal entities that were se-
propriateness and effectiveness of the governance systems lected based on certain criteria such as headcount, sales
with the board of management at least once a year and re- revenue, and specific risk indicators (e.g., the current Cor-
ceives reports on the material risks and compliance issues. ruption Perception Index published by Transparency Inter-
It also discusses measures for the adaptation and further national). In addition, we carried out further in-depth analy-
development of corporate governance systems. ses in selected regions and subsidiaries.
In the Bosch Group’s regions, compliance offices have been We evaluated the results and initiated appropriate mea-
set up as part of the Compliance Management corporate sures that will be implemented in 2025. These include, for
department. One of their tasks is to support the regions in example, activities to raise awareness among associates
fulfilling their obligations under the CMS and in conducting regarding individual risks, supplementary training programs
internal investigations. For this purpose, they have for specific target groups, or even random checks of
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
87
Compliance
compliance with rules and processes. To document and Codes of conduct
track the measures, we use a central database. We plan to In 2024, we completely revised our Code of Business Con-
further develop and digitalize our approach in terms of tech- duct and republished it as the Code of Conduct.31 In addi-
nology and content in 2025. tion to legal developments, the results of benchmarking
studies and user expectations were also taken into
Our business partners are likewise regularly subject to a account.
standardized and risk-based compliance check. This en-
compasses both customers and suppliers, potential acqui- The new document provides guidance for all Bosch associ-
sition and takeover targets, as well as possible partners in ates on values-based, ethical, and legally compliant behav-
the establishment of joint ventures. ior. The Code of Conduct defines basic rules of conduct in
the company and provides guidance on issues such as ac-
The depth and scope of the checks depend on various fac- cepting gratuities or the prevention of conflicts of interest.
tors, such as the nature of the business relationship. Corpo- The Code of Conduct also describes our social responsibil-
rate and personnel structures can also play a role. Checks ity, including respecting human rights. The basic principles
focus in particular on non-compliance with the law or offi- of the Code of Conduct are specified in other central poli-
cial regulations such as applicable penal laws, environmen- cies and in local regulations, in which we also take a clear
tal regulations, and human rights. We refer to information in stance against dumping.
the public domain for this purpose. The findings are as-
sessed using a standard process and appropriate measures The Code of Conduct is available to associates in more than
are defined and introduced to the extent necessary. These 30 languages as a brochure and was communicated in a let-
can range from a more in-depth assessment right through to ter from the chairman of the board of management of Robert
withdrawal from the business relationship or project. In Bosch GmbH to all associates worldwide at the start of the
2024, we made technical enhancements to the processes of year. All associates exempt from collectively bargained
our business partner check and preparations to replace the agreements have to confirm their acknowledgement of the
existing IT solution with a new system in 2025. This strength- document. In addition to the long version, there is also an
ens our risk-based approach and further increases the effi- abridged version that summarizes the key messages. Fur-
ciency of our checks. thermore, the Code of Conduct is also available to internal
and external stakeholders online as a pdf download and as
a website with further information.
31 BSH Hausgeräte GmbH has developed its own Code of Conduct.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
88
Compliance
We have also prepared a new Anti-Corruption Policy as an the environment” section). Referenced in the Terms and
umbrella regulation for further compliance rules on anti- Conditions of Purchase, this code is generally made an inte-
corruption, focusing especially on gifts and invitations, gral contractual element and is sent to all suppliers at the
sponsorship, donations, staff rotation, and conflicts of in- beginning of the business relationship.
terest. At the same time, we have fundamentally revised our
requirements with respect to gratuities. Compliance training
We use various training programs and communication mea-
In Germany, for example, the acceptance and issue of gifts sures to raise our associates’ awareness of compliance is-
is permissible up to a limit of 50 euros, gross, per year and sues. The compliance training program33 is available to our
recipient without the need for further approval. We have associates in the form of web-based training (WBT), in-
also standardized the requirements for certain recurring is- person events or webinars as well as corresponding docu-
sues and regulated corresponding limits and approval re- mentation (see T 13). Participation is mandatory for certain
quirements. Depending on local law, other requirements groups of associates, who are selected via a risk-based ap-
and limits may apply to those in Germany. So-called facilita- proach. For example, these include associates exempt from
tion payments – payments made to officials to expedite an collectively bargained agreements due to their specific re-
administrative service to which the payer is generally legally sponsibility as specialists or managers, but also numerous
entitled – are still explicitly not permitted worldwide. These other associates in selected areas or in special functions.
regulations are set to come into force in 2025, accompanied The training content must be repeated regularly, usually at
by corresponding training programs. two- to three-year intervals. Our training programs are regu-
larly refined and updated to accommodate new content and
We feel that responsible and lawful conduct is important developments, as well as feedback from participants.
beyond company boundaries and have clearly formulated
our expectations in our Code of Conduct for Business Part- In addition to the company’s own associates, people who
ners.32 In this way we require suppliers to the Bosch Group are not Bosch associates can also be trained, in compliance
to comply with human rights and environment-related prin- with labor, company, and tax law requirements. These in-
ciples and to put in place appropriate due diligence pro- clude associates of contractual partners or affiliated
cesses. We likewise require them to pass on this expecta- companies.
tion to their own suppliers (see also the “Social | Complying
with due diligence obligations relating to human rights and
32 BSH Hausgeräte GmbH has developed its own Code of Conduct for Suppliers, 33 BSH Hausgeräte GmbH has developed its own compliance training program.
which is comparable in content.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
89
Compliance
T 13 The minimum compliance training courses currently held
worldwide have been completed over one million times to Areas covered by the global minimum compliance training courses
date. With the new basic compliance training on the Code of
Conduct, all associates must complete at least one manda- Area Topic Format
tory compliance training course.
Business ethics Code of Conduct WBT, document
Participation in the minimum compliance training courses is General compliance awareness Video
tracked using a dashboard, which also reflects participants’ Anti-corruption Anti-corruption WBT
feedback as a basis for improving the quality of the training.
Anti-corruption for Germany Webinar
Particular attention is paid to checking that training has
been completed on time. In the event that training courses Accounting law Value limits for internal approvals WBT
are overdue, reminders are automatically sent to the associ-
Anti-money Money laundering prevention Document
ates, executives, and HR business partners to complete the laundering
outstanding training.
IP compliance Dealing with classified information WBT
Software license management WBT
Four new training modules were added to the compliance
training program in 2024. In the area of accounting law, the Antitrust law Antitrust law WBT, webinar
“Value limits for internal approvals” WBT was made manda-
Product compliance Product compliance WBT
tory for all associates with leadership responsibility. Man-
datory information on the prevention of money laundering is Product safety and product liability WBT
also new. Furthermore, the existing area of customs and Customs and export Export control WBT, webinar, document
export control law was expanded to include two training control law
modules on export control and sanctions.
Compliance at Bosch is also an integral part of the annual
performance review. Associates actively confirm in the re-
lated documentation that they have taken due note of the
Code of Conduct and the internal regulations of relevance
to them and will act accordingly.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
90
Compliance
Reporting systems standards, the Code of Conduct or other internal regula-
Where potential misconduct is suspected within the Bosch tions, the matter is classified as a compliance case and
Group or at suppliers, associates, and business partners as must be investigated immediately.
well as other third parties can make a report via the Bosch
Group’s reporting system. NGOs can also contact us with If the internal investigations confirm violation of the compli-
their concerns at any time. Reports can be submitted – also ance requirement, this must be remediated immediately.
anonymously – using the appropriate IT tool, by e-mail, or Appropriate measures must also be taken to prevent fu-
phone. ture non-compliance issues of this nature. Internal inves-
tigations must be carried out in strict compliance with
Bosch’s reporting system and its reporting office support a existing legal limits, in particular data protection law,
number of languages. Associates and customers are ac- and taking the compliance culture into account (e.g., pre-
tively made aware of the possibility of submitting a report. sumption of innocence). If an internal investigation identi-
We also ask our suppliers to make their associates aware of fies a process weakness that facilitates violations of the
the Bosch reporting system and to inform them accordingly. compliance requirement, the responsible departments
The objective is to make it as easy as possible for all target must be informed and necessary countermeasures must be
groups to submit reports and to ensure the widest possible taken. Any form of reprisal against whistleblowers, in par-
accessibility. All reports are processed independently, im- ticular negative consequences under labor law and the
partially, autonomously, carefully, and confidentially. The threat thereof, is prohibited.
principle of objectivity and the protection of whistleblowers
are our top priority. Our rules of procedure set out the de- The effectiveness of the reporting channels is ensured by
tails of the different channels and principles, as well as the the external provider of the reporting system and Bosch
processing procedure.34 through appropriate measures. This includes carrying out
effectiveness checks in accordance with the regulations on
Procedure whistleblower protection and also taking information from
When a report is received, it must be checked immediately internal and external users into account when operating,
and, if a communication channel exists, its receipt must be maintaining, and further developing the process. When a
confirmed. The incident must then be assigned to the re- person submits a report, they are asked how they became
sponsible office for further processing. If there are sufficient aware of the reporting system. Indications of any difficulties
indications of non-compliance with legally binding external or opportunities for improvement in reporting are taken into
account in both the ongoing development of the system and
as part of the effectiveness review.
34 BSH Hausgeräte GmbH operates its own reporting system, which is
comparable in its basic features, and has developed its own rules of
procedure.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
91
Compliance
We address our associates through various internal commu-
nication channels to raise awareness and increase use of
the reporting system, as well as strengthen trust and confi-
dence in the internal investigation process. In 2024, we
launched the company-wide “Zero tolerance for discrimina-
tion, bullying and harassment! Act now. Speak up!” cam-
paign to provide further information on specific topics and
to draw attention to the reporting system.
In 2024, 1,910 reports (prior year: 1,528) were recorded via
Bosch’s reporting systems. We have seen a steady increase
in the number of reports over the last few years, a develop-
ment we primarily attribute to the comprehensive measures
in the field of compliance and the resulting increased aware-
ness of compliance issues.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
92
Political lobbying
Political lobbying
As a supplier of technology with global operations, we be- transparency as a matter of principle
lieve it is our responsibility to put our technology expertise Transparency is a central principle for the political lobbying
to work for the common good and to demonstrate specific of Bosch’s interests. Consistent with this understanding,
solutions to current challenges in society. With this in mind, the company is registered in the relevant transparency reg-
we help shape opinions at government policy level, for ex- isters worldwide, including in the United States, in Ger-
ample in associations and in various social forums. This many, or at European Union level. Depending on the respec-
commitment is driven by our “Invented for life” ambition. tive legislation, the entries represent the scope and content
of political advocacy.
Organization and regulations
Responsibility for political lobbying at Bosch is set out in an
internal company policy. The Bosch Group’s government
relations are assigned to a corresponding corporate depart- At a glance
ment, together with group-wide corporate communication.
Bosch is registered in the relevant transparency registers
Activities include representing the company’s interests at
under the following identification numbers:
policymaker, association, and organization level; they are
designed to make our technology know-how available in German Lobby Registry:
▶ Robert Bosch GmbH: R000999
regulatory processes, strengthen the company’s reputa-
▶ Bosch Thermotechnik GmbH: R003224
tion, build trust and relationships, and support the compa-
▶ Bosch Healthcare Solutions GmbH: R004462
ny’s profitability.
EU Transparency Register:
Headquartered in Berlin, our Corporate Governmental and ▶ Robert Bosch GmbH: 8999533555-91
Stakeholder Affairs department has offices around the ▶ Bosch Thermotechnology GmbH: 269619148071-01
▶ BSH Hausgeräte GmbH: 416456120129-02
world. A total of 49 associates represent the political inter-
ests of the Bosch Group worldwide vis-à-vis institutions, USA Lobbying Disclosure:
ministries, governments, parliaments, and society. They are ▶ Robert Bosch LLC: Senate ID# 40008054-12;
trained on the topic of “Antitrust law” at three-year intervals House ID# 401320000
as part of the compliance training course (see the “Compli-
ance training” section).
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
93
Political lobbying
Clear policy in the political arena Priority topics and activities
Internal company regulations at Bosch define the frame- Owing to its expertise in technologies of the future, such as
work for engaging with politicians. These regulations define artificial intelligence, electrification, hydrogen, and con-
proper conduct, for example, in the run-up to elections, dur- nected, automated driving, Bosch is a sought-after partner
ing visits to Bosch locations, or when Bosch associates and thought leader in the policymaking process. We are in
come into contact with representatives and members of the favor of standards that are both ambitious and as consistent
political bodies of the EU. They also set out how to comply as possible. For instance, we believe supranational legisla-
with the requirements of the EU Transparency Register and tion at EU level is preferable to having a large number of na-
in what form Bosch participates in EU consultations. tional requirements.
Gratuities in dealings with third parties are likewise regu- Our political lobbying activities aim to identify discussions
lated internally within the company. It is only permitted to and developments on political regulations and initiatives
offer, grant, or accept gratuities in strict compliance with early on, which may affect our products, our company loca-
numerous prerequisites. Our rules relating to office holders tions, or our business operations in general. As a rule, the
are especially restrictive. Here, it must be ensured that any Bosch Group supports policy frameworks that are condu-
appearance of influence being exercised is ruled out and cive to innovation, and endeavors to find possible solutions
that the internal regulations of public authorities are ad- for the challenges facing society.
hered to. Should local law in some regions prescribe stricter
or more specific requirements, these must be adopted and Our aim is to contribute to the relevant topics by taking a
complied with. stand on issues such as technical feasibility and impact on
society. We also want to do justice in this regard to the com-
As of 2021, we no longer make donations to political parties plete spectrum of requirements of our stakeholders. We are
in Germany, but instead participate in the economic dia- committed to remaining politically neutral.
logue forums of the CDU, CSU, SPD, FDP, and Bündnis 90/
Die Grünen parties. Through these memberships, we strive Aligned policy papers define the Bosch Group’s position on
to provide appropriate stable financial support and engage relevant topics and provide a summary of facts and argu-
in a productive exchange of ideas which all participants ments. Released by Robert Bosch GmbH’s board of man-
benefit from. While the regional organizations are responsi- agement, these global policy compass papers are valid
ble for donations made outside Germany, the guidelines re- worldwide. They form the basis for political lobbying and
quire donations to political parties to be submitted to the are supplemented by specific regional position papers to
chairman of the board of management of Robert Bosch take account of respective regional or national legislation.
GmbH for his decision. No such matters were presented in The facts and arguments are also publicly available in the
2024. context of EU consultations. Further information is available
online.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
94
Political lobbying
Due to our highly diversified product portfolio, we are af- ▶ Geopolitical situation and international trade
fected by a large number of legislative projects, including in As a globally operating company, Bosch monitors geopo-
climate, energy, and environmental conservation policy as litical developments very closely. The global trading en-
well as transport, research, and trade policy, data and digi- vironment has changed dramatically in recent years.
talization laws, cybersecurity, or labor and social policy. At Protectionist tendencies are on the rise and trade mea-
UN level, we advocate for the harmonization of technical sures are being used increasingly to protect geo-economic
standards, for example, for automated driving. and national security interests. This means that companies
are being confronted by additional costs, increasing frag-
The priorities of our political lobbying activities are set each mentation of markets, and potential disruptions in their
year by Robert Bosch GmbH’s board of management. Our supply chains.
activities centered on the following topics in 2024:
▶ Circular economy
▶ Climate action Another important part of the European Green Deal is how
For an industrial company like Bosch, the question of how to finance the transformation toward an ecologically sus-
best to reconcile climate action and competitiveness is of tainable economy. In this context, attention centers above
particular importance. In this context, we advocate for regu- all on the EU taxonomy for classifying products and services
lation that is open to different technological solutions and according to their sustainability and expanding the sustain-
takes account of environmental, social, and economic fac- ability reporting requirements. Bosch is in favor of the EU’s
tors. To reach the EU climate goals, all technologies that re- general efforts to achieve more transparent and comparable
duce CO₂ emissions have to be leveraged. These include all corporate sustainability information. In implementing these
forms of electromobility from e-bikes to trucks as well as requirements, the task is now to eliminate legal uncertainty,
the cross-sectoral deployment of renewable fuels as well as ensure a harmonized approach, and guarantee uniform and
hydrogen. At a national as well as EU level, we are commit- industry-wide application. The announced European regu-
ted to the further development of the hydrogen economy. lations are to be developed in close cooperation with exist-
ing, internationally recognized standards so that they are
available promptly and redundant reporting in different
publications is avoided.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
95
Political lobbying
Moreover, Bosch pursued the legislative process for de- ▶ Digitalization
forestation-free products. Limiting the bureaucratic ef- Digitalization remains an important component for innova-
fort involved was important to us in this context as well tive and sustainable development of the economy. Applica-
as ensuring that it would be affordable for companies to tions, in particular in connection with the use of artificial
implement. Also in relation to the circular economy, Bosch intelligence, must serve humans and must be safe, robust,
is closely following the current legislative process for the and explainable – and thus trustworthy. We therefore sup-
Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation, the End of port the corresponding legislative processes and put for-
Life Vehicles Directive, and the implementation of the Bat- ward our position through dialogue with decision makers.
tery Regulation.
2024 saw a large number of regulations adopted in the area
▶ Human rights of digitalization. The European Union’s AI Act is of particular
At EU level, the proposal for the Directive on Corporate Sus- importance to our business activities. Bosch welcomes the
tainability Due Diligence (CSDDD) was presented in 2022 to general motives that led to the enactment of the AI Act,
ensure the respect of human rights and compliance with since the legal regulations will help to create trust in artifi-
environmental obligations in corporate supply chains. The cial intelligence and its application. The focus should al-
negotiations on this proposed legislation were concluded ways be on the interests of consumers.
at EU level in 2024. Bosch supports the objective of the
planned directive – as it did with the corresponding legisla- ▶ Assisted and autonomous driving
tion enacted in Germany. Legal certainty is essential for Bosch laid the foundations for all levels of automated driv-
companies to implement due diligence in the supply chain. ing early on with driver assistance systems and the associ-
This is best ensured by setting clear requirements that can ated sensor technology. To make driving safer and more
be easily implemented in practice. comfortable, Bosch is focusing on the gradual development
of driver assistance systems into automated systems for
Also in 2022, the EU Commission presented a new legisla- private vehicles (currently up to SAE Level 3) and is contrib-
tive proposal (Forced Labour Act) to ban products made uting its expertise at national, European, and international
with forced labor. Here too, negotiations at EU level were level. In 2024, Bosch actively supported the discussions on
concluded in 2024. As a company with global operations assisted, combined lateral and longitudinal control of vehi-
that takes its social responsibility very seriously, Bosch sup- cles (UN R 171 on Driver Control Assistance Systems
ports the proposal and has set out its position in bilateral (DCAS)) at SAE Level 2. We are continuing to work on the
talks with policymakers. At the same time, we advocate for market launch of automated driving solutions based on our
a risk-based approach to implementing the law to enable
targeted and effective implementation.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
96
Political lobbying
experiences in the field with these driver assistance sys- Federal Association for Information Technology, Telecom-
tems and our extensive pre-development activities for com- munications, and New Media (BITKOM), and the German
ponents and software solutions. In China, Bosch already Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA). In
put a system into volume production at the end of 2023 that addition, we are active on the executive board and steering
enables assisted driving at SAE Level 2 and can take over the committee of econsense – Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung
driving task on a specific route. The driver remains respon- der Deutschen Wirtschaft e.V. (Forum for Sustainable De-
sible for driving, but they are assisted in performing their velopment of German Business).
driving task.
In Brussels, we are members of the European Suppliers As-
▶ Research and innovation sociation CLEPA, DIGITALEUROPE and Hydrogen Europe,
As a matter of principle, Bosch only engages in business among others, and Bosch is also represented in the Interna-
operations that are viable without support from subsidies. tional Chamber of Commerce. In the United States, for ex-
We consider temporary government support a suitable in- ample, we are also members of the National Association of
strument only in efforts to assist breakthroughs in new Manufacturers (NAM) and the Alliance for Automotive Inno-
technologies or for the purpose of implementing industrial vation, and we are members of various national automotive
policy strategies. In the reporting period, Bosch received industry associations in other countries, including Brazil
funding of around 302 million euros for R&D projects and as (Sindipecas), Mexico (INA), and India (ACMA). BSH Haus-
part of the two IPCEI (Important Project of Common Euro- geräte GmbH is also a member of APPLiA Home Appliance
pean Interest) funding programs “Microelectronics and Europe, the European association of household appliance
communication technologies” and “Hydrogen.” A further manufacturers.
1.1 million euros was raised for the promotion of training and
further education measures. The measures aim to open up Organization of public stakeholder dialogues
new prospects for the associates concerned against the Bosch strategically engages in and helps to actively shape
backdrop of the company’s transformation. social discourse. We enter into dialogue with policymakers,
scientists, and society in the context of specific events on
In addition to direct exchanges with policymakers, Bosch is socially relevant topics and also seek new and innovative
involved in numerous associations and participates actively formats.
in formulating positions. In Germany, at EU level, and in a
number of other countries, we are members of the relevant Among other things, Bosch hosted the “Allianz der Chan-
industry associations. cen” (Alliance of Opportunities) in January 2024. The
network of currently 65 companies and institutions, re-
In Germany, for example, we are members of the German presenting more than 2.6 million associates in Germany,
Electro and Digital Industry Association (ZVEI), the German pursues the goal of actively shaping the transformation of
Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA), the German the world of work. 192 participants from politics, business,
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
97
Political lobbying
science, and employee representative bodies convened at
Bosch’s representative office in Berlin-Charlottenburg – in-
cluding the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany.
In May 2024, we organized an event together with one of our
media partners and a consulting firm at Bosch’s Innovation
Campus in Berlin under the banner “Denkraum New Work:
Neue Chancen zwischen Arbeit, Algorithmen und Ambi-
tionen” (New work think-tank: new opportunities between
activity, algorithms, and ambition). Together with represen-
tatives from politics, business, science, and society, the
chair of Robert Bosch GmbH’s board of management dis-
cussed solutions and challenges of the changing world of
work. At six themed stations, the 104 participants were also
able to experience hands-on how technological innovations
such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality, and augmented
reality are already being used at Bosch.
In June 2024, the chief executive officer of the Robert Bosch
Stiftung and the head of corporate communications and
governmental affairs at Bosch jointly hosted the “Round Ta-
ble Superwahljahr 2024” (Super election year 2024 round
table). After two keynote speeches, the 26 experts from
politics, business, science, and civil society explored the
question of what companies and social stakeholders can do
to strengthen democracy.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
98
Annex 4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
99
List of graphics and tables
Graphics
no. title Page no. title Page
G 01 Sales revenue: Bosch Group 2024 by region, 7 G 15 Key levers for achieving the scope 3 target: 35
in billions of euros calculation base and main direct and indirect levers
G 02 Sales revenue structure: sales revenue Bosch Group 7 G 16 Results of surveys via the CDP platform 36
2024 by business sectors
G 17 Sustainability methodology, focus on circular 42
G 03 How sustainability is organized at Bosch 10 economy: measures for improving sustainability
performance along the value chain
G 04 Target vision: “New Dimensions” 16
G 18 Environmental aspects of Design for Environment 43
G 05 Seven action areas for embedding sustainability 20
culture G 19 Key materials used: Bosch Group 2024, 46
in 1,000 metric tons
G 06 Bosch’s non-profit institutions 22
G 20 Sustainability methodology, focus on water: 48
G 07 Sustainability methodology: core levers for improv- 25
measures for improving sustainability performance
ing sustainability performance along the value chain
along the value chain
G 08 Sustainability methodology, focus on climate action: 28
G 21 Company sites in regions with water scarcity 49
measures for improving sustainability performance
along the value chain G 22 Water withdrawal: Bosch Group 2024 by region, 50
in millions of cubic meters
G 09 Goal achievement for energy efficiency: 30
savings potential captured with measures to G 23 Wastewater: Bosch Group 2022–2024, 51
increase energy efficiency in millions of cubic meters
G 10 Goal achievement for new clean power: 31 G 24 Wastewater flows and discharge routes 52
in-house energy generation from photovoltaics and
G 25 MaCS – Material Data Management for Compliance 54
hydroelectric power
and Sustainability
G 11 Goal achievement for green electricity: 31
G 26 Associates: Bosch Group by region, as of 57
global electricity demand covered by green
December 31, 2024
electricity in 2024
G 27 Turnover: Bosch Group 2024, selected countries, 57
G 12 Climate action at Bosch – the path to 2030: 32
in %
CO₂ emissions (scope 1 & 2) in millions of metric
tons G 28 New hires: Bosch Group by region, in %, 58
as of December 31, 2024
G 13 Material scope 3 categories in baseline year: 34
Bosch Group 2018, in millions of metric tons of CO₂ G 29 Elements of the “impact:” feedback landscape 61
G 14 Development of scope 3 emissions: 34 G 30 Proportion of women: Bosch Group 2022–2024, in % 63
Bosch Group 2018–2023, in millions of metric tons
of CO₂
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
List of graphics and tables
100
Graphics tables
no. title Page no. title Page
G 31 Total workforce by age group: Bosch Group by 64 t 01 Overview of key stakeholder groups, forms of 13
region, in %, as of December 31, 2024 dialogue, and example results
G 32 Training activities: Bosch Group 2021–2024 67 t 02 Results of the double materiality assessment 14
G 33 Average training days: Bosch Group 2021–2024, 67 t 03 Goals and goal achievement 17
without BSH Hausgeräte GmbH
t 04 Environmental and energy management systems, 24
G 34 Work-related accidents: Bosch Group 2022–2024 69 Bosch Group 2024
G 35 15 high-risk raw materials 77 t 05 Energy demand: Bosch Group 2022–2024, in GWh 29
Energy intensity: in MWh/million euros of sales
G 36 Selected in-scope content of drill-deep assessments 79
revenue
t 06 Greenhouse gas emissions: Bosch Group 29
2022–2024, in 1,000 metric tons of CO₂e
Emissions intensity: in metric tons/million euros
of sales revenue, without carbon offsets
t 07 Determining the corporate, product, and material 37
carbon footprint
t 08 Waste volume and disposal: Bosch Group 47
2022–2024, in 1,000 metric tons
Waste intensity: in metric tons/million euros of
sales revenue
t 09 Water withdrawal in regions with water scarcity: 49
sites in regions of severe or severest water scarcity
2017–2024, in millions of cubic meters
t 10 Water withdrawal: Bosch Group 2022–2024, 50
in millions of cubic meters
Water intensity: in cubic meters/million euros
of sales revenue
t 11 Part-time associates: Bosch Group 2023–2024, 62
by region and by gender
t 12 Occupational health and safety management 68
systems (OHSMS): Bosch Group 2024
t 13 Areas covered by the global minimum compliance 90
training courses
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
List of graphics and tables
101
GRI content index
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 2: General disclosures (2021)
The organization and its reporting practices
GRI 2-1 Organizational details - Shareholders of Robert Bosch GmbH 07–08; 114
GRI 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability - Consolidated group 114; AR: 100 et seq.
reporting
GRI 2-3 Reporting period, frequency, and contact point 114–115
GRI 2-4 Restatements of information 114
GRI 2-5 External assurance 111–113; 114
Activities and workers
GRI 2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business relationships - Subsidiaries and regional companies 07–08
- Business sectors
GRI 2-7 Employees - Number of associates 07–08; 56–58; 62;
- Turnover 64
GRI 2-8 Workers who are not employees - Subcontracted workers 57
Governance
GRI 2-9 Governance structure and composition - Board of management and supervisory board 09–10; AR: 10 et
seq.
GRI 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest - Corporate Sustainability Board 09–10
governance body
GRI 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
GRI 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the
management of impacts
GRI 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
GRI 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability - Sustainability report is authorized for issue
reporting by the chairman of the board of manage-
ment of Robert Bosch GmbH and the board * The references indicate the
of management member responsible for pages on which the respective
sustainability GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
GRI 2-15 Conflicts of interest - Codes of conduct 88–89 “AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
102
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 2-16 Communication of critical concerns - Compliance management system 86–87; 91–92
- Reporting systems
- Sanctions committee
GRI 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body - Goal agreements and management reviews 09–11; 20–21
GRI 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest - Remuneration system 9; 61–62; AR: 61
governance body - Goal agreements and management reviews
GRI 2-19 Remuneration policies - Remuneration system
GRI 2-20 Process to determine remuneration
GRI 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
Strategy, policies, and practices
GRI 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy - Foreword 3–5
GRI 2-23 Policy commitments - Basic principles of social responsibility 9–11; 15–16; 20;
- Mission statement and values 24; 54; 56; 72;
- Guidelines of Work Safety and Environmental 77–78; 86–89;
Protection 91–94
- Codes of conduct
- Target vision
GRI 2-24 Embedding policy commitments - Selection, assessment, and further 09–11; 43-44;
development of suppliers 72–81; 86–87; 93
- Corporate Sustainability Board
- Design for Environment
- Human rights committee
- Life cycle assessments
- Due diligence obligations relating to human
rights and the environment
- Transparency register
GRI 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts - Selection, assessment, and further 11; 15; 24–54;
development of suppliers 72–81; 86–92
- Design for Environment
- Sustainability management
- Life cycle assessments
- Risk analysis, preventing and mitigating risks
GRI 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns - Complaints procedures 75; 91–92
- Reporting systems
GRI 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations - Compliance management system 09–11; 72–81; * The references indicate the
- Codes of conduct 86–90; AR: 84 et pages on which the respective
seq. GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
GRI 2-28 Membership associations 13–14; 96–98 “AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
103
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
Stakeholder engagement
GRI 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement - Sustainability culture 12–14; 20–21,
- Stakeholder groups and forms of dialogue 97–98
- Materiality assessment
GRI 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements - Collective bargaining 59–60
- Collective bargaining agreements
GRI 3: Material topics (2021)
GRI 3-1 Process to determine material topics - Stakeholder groups and forms of dialogue 12–14
- Materiality assessment
GRI 3-2 List of material topics 14
Economic performance indicators
GRI 201: Economic performance (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics 07–08; AR: 59 et
seq.
GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed - Economic KPIs 07; AR: 89
GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities - Analysis of climate risks pursuant to TCFD 27–28
due to climate change - Climate change adaptation
- Position on climate change
GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other AR: 137 et seq.
retirement plans
GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 97
GRI 202: Market presence (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Social benefits 61–63
- Remuneration
GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender
compared to local minimum wage
* The references indicate the
pages on which the respective
GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
“AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
104
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 205: Anticorruption (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Compliance management system 87–93
- Compliance training
GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 87–88
- Risk management
GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anticorruption - Codes of conduct 89–90
policies and procedures
GRI 206: Anticompetitive behavior (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Compliance training 87–92
- Risk management
GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust, and 14; 87–92; AR: 84
- Codes of conduct
monopoly practices et seq.
Environmental performance indicators
GRI 301: Materials (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Materials efficiency 9–11; 15–16; 18;
- Percentage of recycled materials used 24–26; 42–47
- Key materials
GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 46
- Circular economy strategy
GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used - Substances of concern
GRI 302: Energy (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Energy efficiency, own generation, 9–11; 15–17; 24–41
green electricity, carbon offsets
GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 29
- Energy efficiency of the products
GRI 302-3 Energy intensity - Energy management system
- Energy consumption
GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 29–32
- Reduction targets
GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and - Sales-related energy consumption 40–41
services (energy intensity)
* The references indicate the
pages on which the respective
GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
“AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
105
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 303: Water and effluents (2018)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Wastewater management 9–11; 15–17;
- Volume of wastewater 24–26; 48–52
- Quality of wastewater
GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 49–52
- Reduction targets
GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts - Sales-related water consumption 17; 51–52
(water intensity)
GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal 49–50
- Water efficiency
GRI 303-4 Water discharge - Water withdrawal 51–52
- Regions with water scarcity
GRI 305: Emissions (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Energy efficiency, own generation, 9–11; 15–17; 24–41
green electricity, carbon offsets
GRI 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 29; 32
- Logistics and transportation
GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions - Reduction targets
- GHG emissions
GRI 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions 29; 33–41
- Sales-related GHG emissions
GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity (emissions intensity) 29
- Other air pollutant emissions
GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 29–41
GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 32; 51; 53
GRI 306: Waste (2020)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Waste management 9–11; 24–26;
- Waste generation and disposal 42–47; 53–54
- Hazardous waste
GRI 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 47; 53–54
- Circular economy strategy
GRI 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts - Sales-related waste (waste intensity)
GRI 306-3 Waste generated 47
GRI 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
GRI 306-5 Waste directed to disposal
* The references indicate the
pages on which the respective
GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
“AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
106
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Selection, assessment, and further 9–11; 36–38;
development of suppliers 72–81; 88–89
- Human rights committee
GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 78–80
- Due diligence obligations relating to
criteria
human rights and the environment
GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain - Risk analysis 36–38; 75–81
and actions taken - Social and environmental standards
- Responsible supply chain management
- Codes of conduct
Social performance indicators
GRI 401: Employment (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Employment at Bosch 09–11; 15–16;
- Turnover rate 56–59; 61–62
- Work-life balance
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 57–58
- Remuneration and social benefits
GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 61–63; 69–71
provided to temporary or part-time employees
GRI 402: Labor/management relations (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Surveys of associates 09–11; 15; 56–61
- Collective bargaining
GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 59–60
- Collaboration with employee representatives
* The references indicate the
pages on which the respective
GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
“AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
107
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 403: Occupational health and safety (2018)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Occupational health and safety 09–11; 15–16; 19;
management system 56; 68–71
- Occupational accidents and ill health
GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 68–69
- Preventive healthcare, promotion of health,
GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident and occupational health
investigation - Occupational health and safety training
and awareness
GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 70–71
- Accident prevention
GRI 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication 69–71
on occupational health and safety
GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health
GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 68–71; 74–77; 81
safety impacts directly linked to business relationships
GRI 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 68
safety management system
GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries 68–69
GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health 68–70
GRI 404: Training and education (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Competence model 09–11; 56; 66–68
- Personal development
GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 67
- Certified training
GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition - Training activities 66–68
assistance programs
GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 66
and career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Equity, equal opportunities 09–11; 15–16; 18;
- Dimensions of diversity 56; 61; 63–65
- Remuneration system
GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 63–65; AR: 40 et
seq.
GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 61–62 * The references indicate the
pages on which the respective
GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
“AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
108
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 406: Non-discrimination (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Complaints procedures 09–11; 56; 62–65;
- Equity, equal opportunities 75; 88–92
- Dimensions of diversity
GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 91–92
- Non-discrimination
- Reporting systems
GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Selection, assessment, and further 09–11; 56; 59–60;
development of suppliers 72–81; 86–92
- Compliance management system
GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 75–81; 88–90
- Human rights committee
of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
- Due diligence obligations relating to
human rights and the environment
- Social and environmental standards
- Codes of conduct
- Collaboration with employee representatives
GRI 408: Child labor (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Selection, assessment, and further 09–11; 18; 56;
development of suppliers 59–60; 72–81;
- Compliance management system 86–92
- Human rights committee
GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 75–81; 88–90
- Due diligence obligations relating to
for incidents of child labor
human rights and the environment
- Social and environmental standards
- Codes of conduct
GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Selection, assessment, and further 09–11; 18; 56;
development of suppliers 59–60; 72–81;
- Compliance management system 86–92
- Human rights committee
GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 75–81; 88–90
- Due diligence obligations relating to
for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
human rights and the environment
- Social and environmental standards
- Codes of conduct
* The references indicate the
pages on which the respective
GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
“AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
109
GRI indicators Comment Reference*
GRI 414: Supplier social assessment (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Selection, assessment, and further 09–11; 18; 56;
development of suppliers 72–81; 88–90
- Human rights committee
GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 78–80
- Due diligence obligations relating to
GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and human rights and the environment 75–81
actions taken - Responsible supply chain management
- Codes of conduct
GRI 415: Public policy (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Political lobbying 09–10; 86–87;
- Policy in the political arena 93–98
GRI 415-1 Political contributions 94
GRI 416: Customer health and safety (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Product quality 82–84
- Product safety
GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of
product and service categories
GRI 417: Marketing and labeling (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Information and documentation 84
- Responsible advertising
GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information
and labeling
GRI 418: Customer privacy (2016)
GRI 3-3 Management of material topics - Compliance management system 82–84
- Cybersecurity, information security,
GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 83–84; 91–93
and data protection
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
* The references indicate the
pages on which the respective
GRI content is mentioned within
this report. References marked
“AR” refer to our annual report
2024.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
GRI content index
110
Independent auditor’s report
on a reasonable assurance engagement*
To Robert Bosch Gesellschaft mit beschränkter for such internal control as the executive directors consider
Haftung, Stuttgart necessary to enable the preparation of selected disclosures
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
We have performed a reasonable assurance engagement on fraud (manipulation of the selected disclosures) or error.
selected key performance indicators and statements within
the sustainability report of Robert Bosch Gesellschaft mit Independence and quality assurance of the auditor’s
beschränkter Haftung, Stuttgart (hereinafter the “Com- firm
pany”), which are marked with the “” symbol in the We have complied with the German professional require-
sustainability report, for the period from January 1 to ments on independence as well as other professional con-
December 31, 2024 (hereinafter “selected disclosures”). duct requirements.
Our engagement exclusively refers to the selected disclo- Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and
sures marked with the “” symbol in the German pdf ver- professional pronouncements – in particular the BS WP/
sion of the sustainability report. vBP [“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer/vereidigte
Buchprüfer”: Professional Charter for German Public Ac-
Responsibilities of the executive directors countants/German Sworn Auditors] in the exercise of
The executive directors of the Company are responsible for their Profession and the IDW Standard on Quality Manage-
the preparation of the sustainability report containing the ment issued by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany
selected disclosures with reference to the GRI Sustainabil- (IDW): Requirements for Quality Management in the Audit
ity Reporting Standards (hereinafter “applicable criteria”). Firm (IDW QMS 1 (09.2022)) and accordingly maintains a
comprehensive quality management system that includes
These responsibilities of the Company’s executive directors documented policies and procedures with regard to compli-
include the selection and application of appropriate me- ance with professional ethical requirements, professional
thods for the preparation of the selected disclosures and standards as well as relevant statutory and other legal
making assumptions and estimates about individual non- requirements.
financial disclosures that are reasonable in the circumstan-
ces. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Independent auditor’s report
111
* The assurance engagement performed by EY relates exclusively to the German
version of the “Ambitions Sustainability report 2024” of Robert Bosch
Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung. The following text is a translation of
the original German independent assurance report.
Responsibilities of the auditor those risks, and obtaining evidence that is sufficient and ap-
Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance propriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
opinion on the selected disclosures based on our assurance detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
engagement. higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresenta-
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance tions, or the overriding of internal control.
with International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than ▶ Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” is- to the assurance engagement on the selected disclosures in
sued by the IAASB. This standard requires that we plan and order to design procedures that are appropriate in the cir-
perform the assurance engagement to obtain reasonable cumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opin-
assurance about whether the Company’s selected disclo- ion on the effectiveness of these systems.
sures are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance
with the applicable criteria. ▶ Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence, e.g., during
site visits, for the selected disclosures to express our
The assurance engagement on the selected disclosures in- opinion.
cludes performing procedures and obtaining evidence for
the quantitative and qualitative information in the selected ▶ Evaluating the appropriateness of methods used by the
disclosures that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates
basis for our opinion. made by the executive directors and related disclosures.
We exercise professional judgment and maintain profes- ▶ Evaluating the presentation of the selected disclosures;
sional skepticism throughout the assurance engagement. and
Our procedures also include:
▶ Considering the existence of carbon offset certificates
▶ Obtaining an understanding of the carbon neutrality pro- but not their effectiveness.
gram and the policies relating to work accidents within the
Group. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
▶ Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstate-
ment in the selected disclosures, whether due to fraud or
error, designing and performing procedures responsive to
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Independent auditor’s report
112
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Independent auditor’s report
113 Opinion We make express reference to the fact that we will not up-
In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the date the report to reflect events or circumstances arising
assurance engagement, the selected disclosures of Robert after it was issued, unless required to do so by law. It is the
Bosch Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung for the period sole responsibility of anyone taking note of the summarized
from January 1 to December 31, 2024 are prepared, in all result of our work contained in this report to decide whether
material respects, in accordance with the applicable and in what way this information is useful or suitable for
criteria. their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by
means of their own review procedures.
Restriction of use
We draw attention to the fact that the assurance engage-
ment was conducted for the Company’s purposes and that
the report is intended solely to inform the Company about Stuttgart, March 12, 2025
the result of the assurance engagement. As a result, it may
not be suitable for a purpose other than the one mentioned. EY GmbH & Co. KG
Accordingly, the report is not intended to be used by third Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
parties to make (financial) decisions based on it. Our re-
sponsibility is to the Company alone. We do not accept any
responsibility to third parties. Our assurance opinion is not
modified in this respect. Storz Beil
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
General engagement terms and liability [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]
The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer-
innen, Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell-
schaften [German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms]”
dated January 1, 2024, which are attached to this report, are
applicable to this engagement and also govern our relations
with third parties in the context of this engagement (ey-idw-
aab-en-2024.pdf). In addition, please refer to the liability
provisions contained there in section 9 and to the exclusion
of liability toward third parties. We accept no responsibility,
liability or other obligations toward third parties unless we
have concluded a written agreement to the contrary with
the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be
precluded.
The Bosch Group’s sustainability report has been published The information was requested electronically and the data
annually since 2011. The present report describes the prog- was mainly compiled using software specific to each divi-
ress made in terms of sustainable business practices in the sion. As a rule, we aim to present three-year trends to en-
2024 financial year (January 1, 2024, to December 31, 2024). able better comparability. In individual cases, information
relating to previous periods was restated as a result of
As in previous years, the report follows the guidelines of the changes in the methods used to collect and calculate data.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Bosch Group has re- Such changes are marked accordingly in the text. Discrep-
ported with reference to the GRI Standards for the 2024 ancies in the totals are possible due to rounding
financial year. Selected key indicators and statements on differences.
climate action and occupational health and safety were au-
dited by EY GmbH & Co. KG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell- All forward-looking statements in this report are based on
schaft to obtain reasonable assurance. Audited content in the assumptions valid as of the copy deadline and made af-
this sustainability report is marked “.” Tables and graphics ter careful examination and consideration. Due to known
as well as highlighted boxes are part of the audited content, and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors, the
provided that the information contained is marked “.” actual results, developments, or performance of the com-
pany may differ from our forecasts, assessments, and
Unless otherwise stated, all information in this report refers announcements.
to the full consolidated group. Besides Robert Bosch
GmbH, the consolidated group comprises a further German and English pdf versions of the sustainability report
490 (prior year: 468) fully consolidated entities. Details of 2024 are available online. Further information can be found
the scope of consolidation and the developments in the fi- at sustainability.bosch.com and in the annual report 2024.
nancial year relating to it can be found in the annual report Reporting will continue in spring 2026.
(see annual report 2024, page 100 et seq.). Unless other-
wise stated, key environmental and occupational health and
safety indicators cover 454 (prior year: 451) reportable loca-
tions. Reportable locations are all production locations and
development locations (with material responsibility) with
more than 50 associates as well as other sites with more
than 100 associates.
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
About this report
114
4202
troper
ytilibaniatsuS
Strategy and management Environment Social Governance Annex
Publication details
115
PuBLISheD BY:
Robert Bosch GmbH
Corporate Communications
and Governmental Affairs
Postfach 10 60 50
70049 Stuttgart
Germany
Phone +49 711 811-0
Corporate Communications and
Governmental Affairs (C/CG)
Head: Prof. Dr. Christof Ehrhart
Sustainability, Environment,
Health and Safety (C/SE)
Head: Dr. Thomas Schulte
Sustainable Relations
Management (C/SEY)
Head: A. Michel Mittasch
Project Lead: Kyra Meckel
RB.sustainability@de.bosch.com
COnCePt AnD COnSuLtInG:
Schlange, Zamostny & Co. GmbH, Hamburg
text:
Carlsberg & Richter GmbH & Co. KG, Haar
DeSIGn:
AD&D Werbeagentur GmbH, Stephanskirchen
PhOtO CReDItS:
Photography: Bosch