Sustainability
Report
2024
Our Purpose
We create technology
to transform the everyday,
for everyone
Key figures
327,000 76 15.5 9.0
€ billion % € billion
Employees Revenue for continuing Adjusted EBITA margin Net income
operations for the Industrial Businesses
Industry, Infrastructure, and Mobility
Healthcare
Siemens
Siemens
Healthineers 1
SCOPE OF SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
All indicators in the report include Siemens Healthineers (SHS), unless otherwise noted.
For the sake of readability, the masculine form is used; it is representative of people of any gender.
1 Publicly listed subsidiary of Siemens; Siemens’ share in Siemens Healthineers: 75%.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 2
Contents
Contents
Contents 3
Foreword 4
1 5
Siemens at a glance 7 Social 90
1.1 O ur DEGREE sustainability framework 5.1 Working at Siemens 91
sets measurable ambitions 8 5.2 D iversity, Equity & Inclusion 98
1.2 Company profile 10 5.3 P rofessional education, and lifelong learning
1.3 Strategy 17 and growth 102
5.4 O ccupational health and safety management 107
5.5 Corporate citizenship 113
2
Our sustainability management 20
6
2.1 Materiality assessment 21
2.2 Sustainability governance and organization 23 Our sustainability indicators 117
2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability 27
2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance 31
7
Annex 135
3
7.1 Reporting methodology 136
Governance 33 7.2 R eporting principles for Customer
3.1 Compliance and ethics 34 Avoided Emissions 139
3.2 Cybersecurity and data privacy 44 7.3 O ur contribution to sustainable development
3.3 Human rights 50 of societies 143
3.4 Sustainable supply chain practices 55 7.4 T ask Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 147
7.5 G RI Standards – key topics and boundaries 156
4
7.6 WEF IBC Metric 158
Environment 61 7.7 S ASB – Electrical Electronic Equipment Index 162
Holistic environmental protection 62 7.8 United Nations CEO Water Mandate 164
7.9 I ndependent Practitioner’s Report
4.1 Climate action 65 on a Limited A ssurance Engagement
4.2 Conserving resources 73 on Sustainability Information 166
4.3 Product stewardship 79 7.10 Notes and forward-looking statements 168
4.4 EU Taxonomy 86 7.11 F urther information and
information resources 169
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 3
Foreword
Foreword
Scaling sustainability impact At Siemens, we are already harnessing the power of AI. But
We continue to face a time of urgent global challenges. we are not blind to the risks. To ensure ethical standards and
A worsening climate crisis, rising temperatures, severe natu- responsible business conduct in the digital world, we are
ral disasters, escalating energy costs, inflation and geopolit- establishing a cross-functional governance setup to oversee
ical conflicts – threatening both people and the planet. the evaluation, development, and implementation of strate-
gies and guidelines for effective generative AI governance
For 177 years, we have been driven by a singular purpose – within Siemens.
to create technology to transform the everyday, for every-
one. As a leading technology company, our innovations have Technology with purpose
improved the lives of billions of people by supporting Our Siemens Xcelerator open digital business platform con-
decarbonization, improving resource efficiency, and touch- tinues to grow, making digital and sustainability transforma-
ing people’s lives around the world. tion more accessible for companies of all sizes. Key
innovations and bundling of offerings like Gridscale X, Elec-
The need for transformational technology is increasing, and trification X, and Building X address critical challenges and
the easy goals in pursuing sustainability impact have been offer new opportunities for grid decarbonization, energy
achieved. We need faster progress on sustainability, we need management, and building optimization, helping industries
better solutions to global challenges, and we need them meet their sustainability targets. Industrial companies can
today. accelerate their transformation into sustainable digital
enterprises with solutions such as NX X or Industrial Opera-
Combining the real and digital worlds tions X, bringing better innovations to life faster, in a more
To move faster, we need to make adoption easier and scal- cost-effective way, all while reducing their carbon footprint.
able. We are strengthening our position as a leading technol- And Signaling X opens interfaces and integrates signaling
ogy company with unmatched capability to combine the real and control systems for mainline and mass transit into one
and digital worlds. This technology makes our customers cloud platform – making train service and inspection more
more competitive, more resilient and more sustainable, and flexible and efficient.
we continue to make significant investments in future tech-
nologies to unlock further sustainability potential. We are also investing in data transparency. We launched
Siemens EcoTech, a bold ambition resulting from our Robust
Fortunately, many technologies to tackle global challenges Eco Design (RED) approach. The label highlights products
including climate change already exist – and AI is an acceler- that outperform market standards, their predecessors or
ator for impact. existing regulatory requirements across three dimensions –
sustainable materials, optimal use and value recovery. The
AI helps us improve existing infrastructure and businesses; products are produced in factories powered by renewable
make complex software more accessible and intuitive; create electricity and give full data transparency through Environ-
smarter and more energy efficient buildings; and design mental Product Declarations. In fiscal 2024, more than
products with more sustainable materials. 25,000 Siemens products received this recognition of lead-
ing sustainability performance.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 4
Foreword
With Siemens EcoTech, we are empowering our customers to As a result, our CO2 equivalent footprint is smaller while the
make more sustainable choices with easy-to-understand positive impact of our portfolio on customer avoided emis-
environmental data and drive the sustainable transformation sions remains strong, highlighting the positive effect our
of industry and infrastructure. technologies have in transitioning to a decarbonized econ-
omy and our positive impact overall as a company.
Siemens Healthineers shares our strong commitment to
drive technology with purpose. The company commits to Delivering on our DEGREE commitments
sustainability by pioneering breakthroughs to make health- Our broader environmental, social, and governance (ESG)
care accessible and affordable for patients everywhere, ambitions are outlined in our DEGREE sustainability frame-
driving a decarbonized and circular value chain, and devel- work – a 360° approach that enables us to adapt to evolving
oping its diverse workforce, engaging them in creating market dynamics, societal expectations, and regulatory
greater business and societal impact together also with their standards. Our six fields of action – Decarbonization, Ethics,
strategic partners. Governance, Resource Efficiency, Equity, and Employability –
guide our responsible business practices.
Positive impact
Data shows our efforts to scale sustainability impact are And we deliver on our promises: One year ahead of time, we
paying off. have achieved the set ambition in 7 out of 14 DEGREE KPIs
by the end of fiscal 2024, equaling half of our ambitions set
More than 90% of our business enables positive sustainabil- in 2021.
ity impact for our customers, driving impact across our three
value propositions of decarbonization and energy efficiency, We are committed to reducing our own environmental foot-
resource efficiency and circularity, and people centricity and print. We have accelerated our decarbonization journey and,
societal impact. a year ahead of target, overachieved our 2025 interim
ambitions with a 60% reduction of CO2 emissions since
Our aim is to have a positive impact on the world around us. 20192. We have also decreased energy consumption by 17%
In fiscal 2024, products sold to customers are projected to since 20212, and 97% of our locations have implemented
avoid around 144 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent water strategies.
emissions over their lifetime.
Our ambitions are brought to life by about 327,000 people
In contrast, the entirety of our value chain emissions accounted at Siemens3 in an increasingly inclusive environment.
for only around 121 million metric tons of greenhouse gas Women3 now hold 32.6% of top management positions
emissions in fiscal 2024. These numbers exclude Innomotics1 – within Siemens2, already surpassing our DEGREE ambition
a world-l eading electric motors and large drives company – for 30% by 2025 for the second fiscal year in a row2. In fiscal
which was sold on October 1, 2024.
2 Siemens without Siemens Healthineers (SHS).
3 “People” and “Women” at Siemens refers according to our Financial Reporting Guide-
line (FRG) to Siemens employees (every natural person in an active employment
1 121 million metric tons CO2 equivalent emissions represent Siemens Scope 1, 2 and 3 relationship with a fully consolidated Siemens company. Employees are all internal
emissions, whereby Scope 3 downstream emissions exclude Innomotics. workforce without apprentices, students, interns and other internal workforce).
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 5
Foreword
2024, we invested €442 million in employee education and Going further, together
training, ensuring sustainable employability in rapidly Despite this progress, we need to go further. And we can
changing markets. We have also made progress in the num- only do that by embracing transparency, aiming higher, and
ber of hours our people3 spent learning across the three working together – with customers, partners, suppliers, and
strategic focus areas of digitalization, sustainability, and the broader ecosystem.
leadership. On average, our people3 have accrued 27 digital
learning hours per person this fiscal year; achieving our As we enter the new year, our focus remains on driving our
DEGREE ambition of 25 digital learning hours by 20252 one business with purpose, through technology with purpose:
year ahead. scaling sustainability impact by combining the real and the
digital worlds.
Our leadership in sustainability has not gone unnoticed.
EcoVadis awarded us the Platinum medal in 2024, placing us
in the top 1% of 73,000 companies assessed worldwide, and
CDP placed us on the Climate Change A list. Additionally, the
Dr. Roland Busch Judith Wiese
Science Based Targets initiative validated our 2030 and 2050
emission reduction targets in line with the more ambitious
net-zero standard, affirming our commitment to tackling
climate change.
Our enabling role in sustainable transformation for the cli-
mate change mitigation and circular economy objectives, in
line with ambitious requirements set by the European Union,
is reflected in our strong EU Taxonomy numbers. Based on
the first full scope EU Taxonomy assessment of the Siemens
business portfolio, Taxonomy-eligible revenue accounted for
€52 billion (68%) and Taxonomy-aligned revenue for €19 bil-
lion (25%) of total revenue.
2 Siemens without Siemens Healthineers (SHS).
3 “People” and “Women” at Siemens refers according to our Financial Reporting Guide-
line (FRG) to Siemens employees (every natural person in an active employment
relationship with a fully consolidated Siemens company. Employees are all internal
workforce without apprentices, students, interns and other internal workforce).
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 6
Pages 7 – 19
Siemens at
a glance
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 7
1.1 Our DEGREE sustainability framework sets measurable ambitions
1.1
Our DEGREE sustainability framework
sets measurable ambitions
D e carbonization
support the 1.5°C target
to fight global warming
E t hics
foster a culture of trust, adhere to ethical standards,
and handle data with care
G o vernance
apply state-of-the-art systems for effective
and responsible business conduct
R esource efficiency
achieve circularity, dematerialize, and
conserve biodiversity
E quity
foster diversity, equity, inclusion, and community
development to create a sense of belonging
E mployability
enable people to stay resilient and relevant
in a permanently changing environment
A strong framework for sustainability
Sustainability is an integral part of our business. We are The DEGREE sustainability framework is based on six fields of
taking our ESG commitment to the next level with our action that drive sustainability and are dynamic and contin-
DEGREE sustainability framework. The framework provides a uously evolving. We have set clear priorities and ambitions
360-degree approach to our core sustainability values. for key ESG issues, which we are driving towards. The
DEGREE sustainability framework applies to all Siemens
By addressing the three aspects of ESG, we are building a affiliated companies, without Siemens Healthineers (SHS).
better future that helps us to However, the sustainability approach at SHS follows the
same basic principles, which reflects our expectations as its
→ Stay within the planetary boundaries; majority shareholder.
→ Foster a culture of trust, empowerment, and growth;
→ Support inclusive economic opportunities;
→ Ensure that our people and businesses remain resilient and
relevant for the future.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 8
1.1 Our DEGREE sustainability framework sets measurable ambitions
What are our ESG ambitions and priorities, and what progress did we make by the end of fiscal 2024?
Progress
Baseline at the end of FY 24 Ambitions Achieved
Decarboni­ 1. Reduce emissions in own operations FY 19: –60% – 55% by 2025
zation by 55% by 2025 737 kt CO2e
Reduce emissions in own operations FY 19: –60% – 90% by 2030
by 90% by 2030 and compensate 737 kt CO2e
residual emissions
2. Net Zero supply chain by 2050, FY 20: –2% – 20% by 2030
20% emissions reduction by 2030 8,098 kt CO2e – 100% by 2050
Ethics 3. Striving to train 100% of our people on From FY 23 91% 100% by 2025
Siemens’ Business Conduct Guidelines
every three years
Governance 4. ESG-secured supply chain based on − − Suppliers committed − −
supplier commitment to the Supplier
Code of Conduct
5. Long-term incentives based on − − ESG criteria anchored − −
ESG criteria 1
Resource 6. Robust Eco Design for 100% of relevant FY 21: 16% 54% 100% by 2030
efficiency hardware, software, and service portfolio
by 20302
7. Natural resource decoupling through − − Metals 35% − −
increased purchase of secondary Resins 1%
materials for metals and resins3
8. Circularity through waste-to-landfill FY 21: 0% – 30% – 50% by 2025
reduction by 50% by 2025 and toward ~ –100% by 2030
zero landfill waste by 2030
Equity 9. 30% female share in Top Management FY 20: 22.7% 32.6% 30% by 2025
by 2025
10. Access to employee share plans – FY 21: 98% 99.96% ~ 100% by 2025
maintain high level and expand globally
to up to 100% by 2025 4
11. Global commitment to the New Normal − − Committed – –
Working Model 5
Employability 12. Increase digital learning hours to FY 20: 7h 27h 25h by 2025
“25 by 25” 6
13. Access to Employee Assistance Program: FY 20: 82% 99% 100% by 2025
Maintain high level and expand to 100%
globally by 2025
14. 30% improvement in Siemens’ globally FY 20: 0.31 –19% – 30% by 2025
aggregated LTIFR 7 by 2025
1 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/Sustainability Index, which is based on CO2e reduction and digital learning hours.
2 Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis, based on an adjusted portfolio scope.
3 Product specifications for the use of secondary plastics are in development.
4 Where legally possible and reasonable.
5 For employees with job profiles that make this possible and reasonable.
FURTHER INFORMATION
6 Digital learning hours per headcount on average.
7 LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (Siemens employees and temporary workers). ON OUR AMBITIONS
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 9
1.2 Company profile
1.2
Company profile
– We are a leading technology company focused on (easier, faster and at scale) and achieve their sustainability
industry, infrastructure, transport, and healthcare targets.
– We create technology to transform the everyday,
for everyone In addition to its core businesses (Digital Industries, Smart
– We combine the real and digital worlds to empower Infrastructure, and Siemens Mobility), Siemens is the majority
our customers to become more competitive, resil­ shareholder of the exchange-listed company Siemens
ient, and sustainable Healthineers AG, one of the leading providers of medical
technology.
A leading, global technology company As a minority interest, Siemens Energy AG is not included in
Siemens AG (Berlin and Munich) is a technology company this Sustainability Report. Siemens is a technology company
focused on the fields of industry, infrastructure, mobility, that operates in nearly all countries of the world. Ever since
and healthcare. it was founded in 1847, Siemens has provided solutions to
global challenges and stands for innovation, quality, and
By combining the real and digital worlds, Siemens helps its reliability. By accelerating the digital transformation, we
customers accelerate their own digital transformations empower our customers and partners to scale their sustain-
ability impact.
Businesses and services
Industrial businesses
Digital Smart Siemens Siemens
Industries Infrastructure Mobility Healthineers1 Advanta
Services
Siemens Siemens Global
Financial Services Real Estate Business Services
1 Publicly listed subsidiary of Siemens; Siemens’ share in Siemens Healthineers is 75%.
SIEMENS COMPANY PRESENTATION
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 10
1.2 Company profile
Industrial businesses diagnostics, cancer care, and minimally invasive therapies,
Digital Industries Siemens Healthineers is committed to driving greater societal
Industrial companies are facing immense pressure to be impact by pioneering breakthroughs in healthcare for every-
better, faster, more profitable, and more sustainable. To one, everywhere. The company partners with healthcare
manage these complex requirements, they need to embrace providers worldwide to overcome the most threatening
a digital-first approach that provides a holistic view of the diseases and shape the transformation of healthcare, while
entire value chain and seamlessly integrates sustainability also minimizing the environmental impact.
into all aspects of their business. Siemens Digital Industries
offers technology, industry expertise, and services that Key figures
empower companies to make smarter decisions for a better In fiscal 2024, which ended on September 30, 2024, Siemens
future. This includes analyzing and optimizing carbon inten- generated revenues of €76 billion in its continuing opera-
sity and creating circular models for longer product lifecycles tions and net income of €9.0 billion. As of September 30,
and greater resource efficiency – all while growing their 2024, the company had approximately 327,000 employees
profitability and market share. worldwide. SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGE­
MENT REPORT, CHAPTER 7, OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF THE ECONOMIC POSITION
Smart Infrastructure
Siemens Smart Infrastructure drives the decarbonization, Customers
resource-efficiency, and people centricity of energy systems, Putting customers first is a longstanding tradition at
buildings, and industries by connecting the real and digital Siemens1. Our customers are the lifeblood of our business.
worlds. Smart Infrastructure provides customers with a That is why we made “customer impact” a strategic priority.
comprehensive end-to-end portfolio from a single source – We listen to understand our customers’ needs as early as
with products, systems, solutions, and services from the possible, and ideally we do this before our customers even
point of power generation all the way to consumption. With become aware of them. We think and act “customer first.”
an increasingly digitalized ecosystem, this helps customers
thrive and communities progress while contributing to pro- Technology is changing and evolving fast, whether it is the
tecting the planet. convergence of information technology and operational
technology or the rapid emergence of Generative AI. At the
Siemens Mobility same time, all organizations need to reduce their environ-
Siemens Mobility drives the decarbonization and resource- mental footprint and become more sustainable.
efficiency of transportation by connecting the real and digi-
tal worlds. The portfolio creates a positive societal impact To enable customers to stay successful in this rapidly chang-
because it enables safe, reliable, and affordable public ing world, we develop scalable technologies that are easier
transportation and freight rail transport, which are part of to deploy and use. This means doing things differently from
the backbone of socio-economic development. Leveraging the past, like developing eco-designed products that solve
digital technologies enables lifecycle cost-optimized rail common challenges shared by many customers in a specific
infrastructure and rolling stock, 100% system availability, industry, and ideally across multiple industries, instead of
maximized network capacity, and optimized customer expe- one-off solutions. To meet our customers’ needs as well as
rience and processes to transform mobility for everyone. the constantly changing demands of the markets, Siemens
draws on a global sales force that takes its guidance from our
Siemens Healthineers regional companies. Key success factors include a strong
Human health and the health of our planet are closely linked, customer focus, digital transformation, efficient processes,
and both are being impacted by rising challenges today. and collaboration with partners who are experts in their
More than 4.5 billion people around the world lack access to fields in order to bring innovations faster to our customers.
affordable and accessible healthcare services. As a leading
medical technology company with expertise in imaging,
1 We call any current or potential purchaser of Siemens products or services, no matter
what the sales channel, a “customer.” Some customers who are especially significant
for Siemens are called “Key Customers .”
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 11
1.2 Company profile
Sustainable growth through digital 1. A curated modular portfolio of IoT-enabled hardware,
transformation software, and digital services from Siemens and qualified
New business models are emerging at a rapid pace, and the partners that use standard application programming
importance of collaborative partnerships within ecosystems interfaces (APIs)
is increasing, especially in the context of sustainability pre-
rogatives such as circularity that cannot be solved unilater- 2. An ever-growing open ecosystem of partners and sellers
ally. We need to achieve more, and we need to do it
sustainably while also consuming fewer resources. We can 3. An evolving marketplace that enables customers, sellers
do this by increasing our efficiency with the help of new and developers to explore, teach, and exchange digital
technologies and by working in ecosystems with new busi- solutions.
ness models to keep resources in circulation.
The platform is constantly growing and provides many mar-
In today’s world, digitalization and sustainability have ket- tested solutions that enable customers to easily begin
become imperative for businesses. They are also growth their sustainability transformation, while providing cyberse-
engines for Siemens. For 177 years, Siemens has been creat- curity standards at every level to reduce risks.
ing technologies that transform everyday life for people
around the world. Today, we combine the real world of Customer Impact
buildings, grids, factories, trains, and healthcare systems At Siemens we rely on a mature Key Account Management
with the digital world of software, data, AI, and digital twins, approach to systematically structure and drive our Key Cus-
where we are a leading technology company. This is how we tomer relationships company wide. While all our customers
want to empower our customers to become more competi- are served by the general Sales organization, dedicated Key
tive, more resilient, and more sustainable. Customers are also managed through our Key Account
Management framework.
Technology is driving sustainability, and the digital transfor-
mation is essential to accelerating sustainability. To speed up Over and above our basic sales approach, Siemens’ primary
our customers’ digital transformation and increase their principles for successful Key Account Management are a
value added, we created Siemens Xcelerator, an open digital deep understanding of our customers’ technology and verti-
business platform. It accelerates the digital transformation cal markets along with the collaboration among all custom-
(easier, faster, and at scale) and plays a key role in sustain- er-facing parties – across functional, organizational, and
ability, because digitalization is a key way to empower our regional boundaries (“go-to-market”).
customers to drive their sustainability goals along three
impact areas: decarbonization & energy efficiency, resource Our harmonized Key Account Management process enables
efficiency & circularity, and people centricity & societal us to act as one company and serve our customers in a
impact. It comprises three fundamental elements: global, sustainably coordinated effort.
Key Account Management – A holistic
approach to meeting customer needs
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 12
1.2 Company profile
Systematically measuring and improving Research and Development
customer satisfaction At Siemens our purpose is to provide innovations that
We use the Net Promoter Score (NPS) every year to measure improve the quality of life and create added value for people
customer satisfaction, and by extension, the quality of our all over the world.
partnerships. Siemens’ systematic evaluation draws from
customer satisfaction surveys conducted worldwide every Innovation strengthens Siemens and its customers
year. The score itself is based on a single question: “How Our Research and Development (R&D) activities are geared
likely is it that you would recommend Siemens to a colleague towards developing innovative and sustainable solutions for
or business partner?” Siemens’ customers and businesses, while simultaneously
strengthening our competitive positioning. Our sustained
The survey pursues a holistic approach to customer relations, high investment in R&D underscores our commitment to
because it follows up by implementing processes and addressing key sustainability challenges. In fiscal 2024, we
systems designed to help foster long-term customer loyalty.2 reported in our continuing operations research and develop-
ment expenditures of €6.3 billion and employed 51,600 R&D
Regardless of the score, we initiate a follow-up process after professionals dedicated to driving forward innovation.
the survey, both internally and externally. When a score is
low and considered critical, we take immediate action to Specifically, in the area of research and pre-development, we
identify key issues and determine what measures are needed concentrate on core technologies and innovation fields –
to improve the relationship. Siemens Company Core Technologies – that play an essential
role in the success of Siemens and its customers. The imple-
mentation of our core technologies by our operating busi-
nesses and Technology – our central R&D department – ensures
that research activities and business strategies are closely
Our customers’ satisfaction aligned, and that all businesses can profit equally and quickly
is our top priority from technological developments. For instance:
Amid global challenges, our customers have recognized our → Data Analytics & AI: Industrial facilities and infrastruc-
exceptional service support, our product quality, and our tures are generating ever-growing amounts of data. Using
diverse offerings. By consistently addressing their concerns, methods of machine-based data analysis and artificial
we were once again able to improve our Net Promoter Score intelligence (AI) such as the Industrial Copilot, we help
compared to last year. operators increase availability, improve operational qual-
ity, and reduce the stress on humans and the environ-
We are focusing on areas where we can make a difference. ment. At the same time, our quality statement on
This means creating sustainable, long-term value for our industrial AI expresses its trustworthiness, reliability, and
customers, for the environment, for society, and for our robustness according to the requirements suggested for
people at Siemens. the European Union’s AI Act.
→ Connectivity & Edge: The advancement of the Industrial
Internet of Things (IIoT) has facilitated the accessibility of
data and functionalities of field and edge devices to
automation and IT applications, connecting the physical
and digital worlds. Intelligent preprocessing of data and
AI-based algorithms embedded in these devices transform
field data into valuable information right at the site of
data acquisition.
2 In most cases, the survey questions are focused on the business unit level. However,
the overall score can be aggregated up to the business level and to the level of the
entire company.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 13
1.2 Company profile
→ Simulation & Digital Twins: A digital twin is the result → Sustainable Energy & Infrastructure develops tech-
of modeling and simulating systems and processes, nologies for sustainable, reliable, and resilient power
including the development and manufacturing of prod- grids and infrastructures. It improves the lifecycle perfor-
ucts. Digital twins make it easier to design better and mance of customer sites and provides technologies for
more sustainable products, accelerate the commissioning the decarbonization and electrification of buildings,
of manufacturing plants, speed up time-to-market, help industrial sites, and transportation systems.
save resources, and improve the operation of infrastruc- → Integrated Circuits & Electronics: Integrated Circuits &
tures throughout their lifecycles. Electronics bundles R&D activities in areas like optimized
→ Software Systems & Processes: Complex, distributed circuit design & verification and resource-efficient manu-
industrial systems require the integration of software facturing, the testing and operation of industrial electronics,
from different providers. To facilitate our SaaS business, and recycling electronics-based products and battery
we develop new methods and processes for software systems.
systems and their development. → User Experience: Users expect an intuitive operation in
→ Power Electronics: Power electronics is the key technol- all our products. The purpose of the User Experience core
ogy driving the shift to a sustainable, all-electric society. technology is to develop user centric products and find
It is foundational for controlling and converting electrical out how customers use Siemens products, what functions
power in many domains, like renewable energy supply, they need, what they expect, and what is unnecessary.
power distribution, electrical energy storage, industrial
drives, e-mobility, data centers, and healthcare applications. Siemens Healthineers’ focus also lies on other research prior-
Our priorities include eco-design, adaptable software- ities with the goal of shaping the healthcare of the future.
defined functionality, and faster market entry through These include medical technology, sensor systems, robotics,
standardization and digital twins. and any of the increasingly complex applications that can be
→ Advanced Manufacturing & Circularity: Due to the automated. By using digitalization and AI responsibly,
growing significance of circularity for our customers and Siemens Healthineers is increasing the quality, efficiency,
society, we are intensifying our focus on eco-design, sus- and effectiveness of care at all levels of the healthcare deliv-
tainable materials, and recycling. Additive manufacturing ery system.
allows for functionally optimized designs and the on-
demand creation of spare parts, thereby minimizing Siemens supports research, founders, and students to help
material utilization. drive the development of innovative solutions. We work
→ Future of Automation is exploring the potential of closely with scientists at more than 500 leading universities
autonomy, AI, and advanced IT mechanisms for future and research institutions, not just through bilateral research
automation technologies. We integrate automation work- cooperation agreements but also in publicly funded collective
flows, promote data-driven operations and optimization, research projects. With the Siemens Research and Innovation
and employ new technologies in engineering to meet Ecosystem program (Siemens RIE), we want to address
workforce capabilities and flexibility demands. This boosts today’s challenges with the technologies of the future in a
the productivity of our customers and helps them reduce collaborative approach. In fiscal 2024 we collaborated in 16
their operational footprints. local Siemens Research and Innovation Ecosystems around
→ Cybersecurity & Trust: Industrial cybersecurity and the globe.3
trustworthy data management are key technologies for
digitalization. The security of industrial facilities and the Next47 is an independent global venture firm backed by
protection of data and intellectual property are important Siemens that invests in the enterprise technology leaders of
requirements for customers as well as governments and tomorrow. The firm provides the domain expertise, specialized
societies. resources, and deep network that founders need to go from
3 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 14
1.2 Company profile
their idea to a category-leading business. Next47 brings
knowledge and expertise from the startup ecosystem to
Siemens. It ensures that Siemens gains early access to the
best emerging technology solutions to help solve its custom-
ers’ most difficult and fundamental business challenges. The
Next47 Accelerator aims to identify and nurture breakthrough
ideas at Siemens with the goal of empowering internal talent
to create new business opportunities for the company.
Our Siemens Company Core Technologies drive technology development to master key sustainability challenges
Advanced Connectivity & Cybersecurity & Data Analytics &
Manufacturing & Edge Trust Artificial
Circularity Intelligence
Exploring the potential of Automated quality detection Replacing analog with Generative Al-powered
automated battery recycling in fresh food production by digital interlocking systems assistants like the Industrial
to protect staff from hazards multimodal sensor data fusion in rail networks reduces Copilot optimize operations
during manual opening and requires powerful in-field edge trackside delays by 50% and support automation
to reduce carbon footprint up computing, enhancing food and enhances safety, tasks – and empower less-
to 75% by enabling circularity safety and reducing food punctuality and capacity experienced employees to
of battery materials waste grow into engineering roles
Future of Integrated Power Simulation &
Automation Circuits & Electronics Digital Twin
Electronics
Autonomous driving technology Computational physics Silicon carbide technology in Predictive maintenance of
in trams uses advanced algo- instead of physical testing for traction converters reduces industrial drive systems
rithms to interpret and predict electronic designs reduces power consumption of light through virtual sensing with
driving situations. This reduces hardware samples, enabling a rail vehicles by up to 10% and a unified Executable Digital
the driver’s workload and more efficient and eco-friendly noise emissions by up to twin reduces sensor hardware
ensures safe operation product validation 10dB(A) by 30% and CO2 emissions
by 60 kg per drive
Software Sustainable User
Systems & Energy & Experience
Processes Infrastructure
Scalable and adaptable SaaS 70% less CO2 emissions of Digital customer experience
Siemens Company
offerings for low-voltage apartments by combination of delivered with low-code
grid monitoring and outage energy and building technolo- within 4 weeks: accessible Core Technologies
management increases the gies in one of Europe’s most planning app enabling train
capacity of existing grids and innovative energy efficiency passengers to travel as safely
helps accelerate the energy projects in Seestadt Aspern, and pleasantly as possible
transition Vienna
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 15
1.2 Company profile
Patent portfolio reflects sustainable innovation Using the LexisNexis® PatentSight® patent information
Siemens’ sustainable innovation is reflected in the company’s platform, we evaluate our sustainable innovations against
patent portfolio. As of September 30, 2024, Siemens held the United Nations’ 17 defined Sustainable Development
approximately 41,700 granted patents worldwide in its Goals (SDGs) and the corresponding 169 targets. 47% of the
continuing operations. SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, active patent families in Siemens’ patent portfolio relate to
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT at least one SDG, mainly in the categories of Good Health
and Well-Being (SDG 3), Industry, Innovation, and Infra-
structure (SDG 9), Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7), and
Climate Action (SDG 13).
SDG-related Siemens IP portfolio by SDG category
Absolute figures represent patent families. Multiple assignments of patents possible.
G 14: L W ife at
b
er
e
low
SDG 15
L
:
a
L
n
i
d
fe on S
P
D
o
G
ve
1
r
:
t y
N o
H
SD
un
G
g 2 e : r Zero
D
S
S
e
D
G
1
3: Cli m
A
a ct t i o n a n d W e l 3 l-B : G o o d
H
S D G 6,304 e in g e a lth
c u d t o io r P n m p tio u n s n a o n C d e R s : p 2 o 1 n G si D b S le 1,29 9 1 0 7 9 81 25 P 2 3 o S 5 r 4 1 t iz f 9 o e l 2 io 4 2 0 1 9 1 3 345 y S t D ila G u 4 Q : n E o d i u ta c
S
C o m m u C n i i t t ie i D e s G
s
a 1 1 n : d S u stain able 5,145 1,540 S D G 5: G e n E d q e u r alit y
In I f n r n a S o s D t v G r a u t 9 c io : t u n In r a d e n u d st ry Eco S n D W o G o m 8 r i k : c a D G n e r d c o e w n t t h SD an G d 7 C : l A e f a f n o r E d n a e b r l g e y SDG a 6 n : d C l S e a a n n i W ta a t t io er n
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 16
1.3 Strategy
1.3
Strategy
– As we approach critical tipping points for our product’s sustainability credentials to the market, a standard,
planet, the need to accelerate a sustainability or predecessor products. Detailed data also facilitates
transformation has never been greater sustainable design decisions.
– Siemens’ business is focused on enabling customers
to achieve a positive sustainability impact along Global megatrends
key areas: decarbonization & energy efficiency, Complexity in the industrial world has never been greater
resource efficiency and circularity, people centric­ than today. In this past year, the global economic and
ity & societal impact geopolitical outlook has remained uncertain. Megatrends
– The DEGREE sustainability framework defines clear are helping us understand pathways to the future and are
fields of action for our sustainability ambition driving us to rethink established ways of doing things:
→ Environmental change and the associated climate change
Siemens is a leading technology company with an offering – along with extreme weather conditions like increasing
designed to drive the digital and sustainable transformation flooding and drought – pose critical challenges to the
of industries, buildings, electrification, mobility, and health- stability and safety of global society, resulting in mass
care. We believe that many technologies that help solve migrations. Current legislation alone is insufficient to
global challenges like climate change already exist today. effectively combat environmental change. We are also
Now is the time to scale sustainability impact by making facing challenges related to resource efficiency and material
technology more easily accessible to everyone. extraction, water scarcity, and biodiversity loss.
→ In times of crisis, glocalization can create a greater bal-
We achieve the greatest impact on sustainability through our ance between the global and the local in our economy.
offerings that empower our customers and partners to meet For instance, by ensuring production of our products and
their own sustainability goals. By combining the real and the solutions near our customers, we can strengthen our
digital worlds, our customers become more competitive and resilience to shocks while also reducing the environmen-
more resilient while simultaneously reducing their environ- tal impact of our products.
mental footprints. → Increasing urbanization, especially in developing regions,
is a significant megatrend. In this context, the demand for
Managing data across complex value chains has become more sustainable and efficient products, technologies,
an important prerequisite for accelerating sustainability. and solutions – including passenger transportation and
Siemens’ industrial metaverse, artificial intelligence (AI), and access to renewable energy – continues to grow as more
digital twin technologies integrate data from physical factories and more people move to cities.
and products across entire lifecycles to optimize production → As global population growth progresses, our societies are
design, increase production efficiency, and reduce CO2e also aging, which means that an increasing number of
emissions and the consumption of energy, water, and raw people need medical care. This demographic change is
materials. We launched the Siemens EcoTech Profiles this also contributing to a shortage of workers across industries.
year. It allows our customers to identify more sustainable → Lastly, digitalization continues to be rapidly adopted by
choices at the product level through transparent environ- multiple industries in the public and private sectors. By
mental data. Each product with the Siemens EcoTech decla- optimizing processes and resources, it can play a decisive
ration has a detailed profile that enables a comparison of the role in reducing the negative impacts of global megatrends.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 17
1.3 Strategy
Scaling sustainability impact portfolio that supports the decarbonization of our customers
These megatrends and their impacts are reshaping the needs and also includes Electrification X and Building X. Electrifica-
of our customers and markets. To create a holistic picture of tion X helps manage entire energy networks and tackles the
potential futures, we conduct sustainability scenario analyses challenges of the energy transition. Building X is a digital
that enable us to map impacts and risks, identify opportunities, building platform that digitalizes, manages, and optimizes
and find new ways to create value. Strategic insights are building operations.
derived from scientific frameworks like the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Representative Concentration Supporting our customers in their sustainability
Pathways (RCPs) and Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) transformation
as well as market trends. In fiscal 2024, we conducted a By combining the real and digital worlds, we support our
climate scenario analysis to identify climate-related sensitivi- customers along key impact areas:
ties within our markets and test the resilience of our business
model under a net-zero and a high-emissions scenario. Decarbonization & energy efficiency
Overall, the analysis has shown that our portfolio positioning We support our customers in their efforts to decarbonize
and the end-markets we serve generally benefit from an their infrastructure and operations with carbon footprint
accelerated low-carbon transition. These scenarios are guiding management, renewables integration, electrification, and
the development of our sustainability strategy. For instance, energy efficiency. A key proof of our positive impact on
we see circularity as a key solution to help keep human decarbonization is the high volume of emissions we help
actions within planetary boundaries. It allows us to respond to avoid: Our offerings sold in fiscal 2024 will contribute to
changing customer needs and regulatory demands. Circularity 173 million metric tons of customer avoided emissions over
is an opportunity to create more value with finite resources, the course of their lifetime (144 million metric tons of emis-
minimize energy and resource use, support CO2e emissions sions without the Innomotics portfolio). For instance, our
reductions, and be more resilient in the face of market volatility. energy-efficient products and solutions support the transi-
tion from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, and our
Megatrends also shape regulations like the Corporate Sus- electrification solutions support renewable grid integration
tainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), which will standardize and the electrification of heat and hydrogen. Across indus-
reporting on environmental, social, and governance topics, tries, we offer energy optimization and carbon footprint
and the EU Taxonomy, a classification system that makes management throughout our products’ lifecycles and supply
environmentally sustainable economic activities transpar- chains. In buildings, we offer energy efficiency and decar-
ent. We integrate regulatory requirements into our strategic bonization solutions, such as smart buildings and smart
sustainability steering, which provides an important proof energy management for a reduced carbon footprint. Our rail
point of our dedication to scaling sustainability impacts in systems offer low-carbon mobility and increased energy
our portfolio, across our sites, and along our value chain. efficiency.
To further increase our positive impact, we believe that Resource efficiency & circularity
working in ecosystems is the best way to create seamless Our approach to circularity aims to do more with less for our
solutions for our customers and their specific challenges. customers, the planet, and society. Siemens’ circularity
Through ecosystems and partnerships, we can increase our framework covers the whole value chain through three
own sustainable offering and enable our customers’ sustain- dimensions. First, we create circular products by designing
ability transformation. Siemens Xcelerator is our open digital for sustainable materials, optimal use, and value recovery.
business platform, an ever-growing ecosystem, and an We optimize secondary material use and improve production
evolving marketplace. It provides access to technology that efficiency to minimize resource consumption. Second, we
makes the digital transformation and sustainability out- embrace circular business by aiming to enhance and preserve
comes faster, easier, and more scalable for companies of all value through lifetime-extending services and the reuse of
sizes. For instance, our GridScale X enables utilities to scale products and components, and finally close the loop by
their grid capacity and increase visibility, which is essential recovering value. Third, we empower our customers’ circu-
for grid decarbonization. GridScale X is part of the Xcelerator larity by supporting the creation of circular products with our
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 18
1.3 Strategy
software portfolio. We provide solutions for optimized, Environment: Decarbonization, Resource efficiency
resource-efficient customer operations and generate value As part of DEGREE, we have set high ambitions to signifi-
through innovative business models and partnerships. For cantly reduce CO2e emissions in Siemens’ operations and
instance, our technologies in the industrial metaverse, digi- upstream supply chain. We have reduced our Scope 1 and
tal twins, and AI reduce the need for physical assets by sim- Scope 2 emissions by a total of 60% since fiscal 2019. We are
ulating, predicting, and optimizing them in order to actively developing our offering to increase repairability,
maximize the product lifetimes, minimize resources, and recyclability and the optimal use of materials. Our product
boost circularity. Our building solutions contribute to opti- design focuses on sourcing secondary and low-carbon mate-
mized space utilization and ultimately increase resource rials, optimization of material use, and lifetime extensions
efficiency. Our mobility solutions focus on enhanced network with measures like repairability, upgradability, and value
capacity and extended lifecycles, thereby preventing significant recovery programs.
new infrastructure build-up. In addition, products with the
Siemens EcoTech Profiles are required to fulfill criteria across Social: Equity, Employability
three areas – value recovery and circularity, optimal use, and Equal treatment and respect are the core of our corporate
sustainable materials – that promote greater circularity. values. Our goal is to position Siemens as the inclusive
employer of choice in all our relevant talent markets. We
People centricity & societal impact foster diversity, equity, inclusion, and community develop-
We enable our partners and customers to improve people’s ment in order to create a sense of belonging and a healthy
lives today and transform the backbone of societies for a and safe environment where all our people can give their
better tomorrow. For instance, our technologies support the best. At Siemens, we invest in the education, development,
well-being, productivity, safety, and security of building and individual growth of our people to develop Skills for Life.
tenants and operators. Similarly, in the field of mobility, We maintain a strong focus on lifelong learning, employee
passengers and operators benefit from greater safety and assistance programs, and occupational health and safety.
convenience thanks to our technologies. They also promote
the socioeconomic development of communities by enabling Governance: Ethics, Governance
access to basic goods, resilient electric power, affordable real At Siemens, we believe that the way we do business is as
estate, food and water, healthcare, education, and public important as our business success. Our values and ethical
transportation. principles are embedded in our Business Conduct Guidelines,
which are mandatory throughout the company. In addition
We can match nearly every item in the Siemens offering to to embedding these principles in our own management
these three impact areas across industries, buildings, electri- systems, we extend them to our suppliers who are required
fication, and mobility. to follow a comprehensive Code of Conduct. Beyond that,
we have made sustainability criteria an integral part of our
DEGREE: High ambitions for sustainability long-term variable compensation programs1 for both the
Sustainability is integral to our business, and it influences Managing Board and our senior management.2
everything we do. The DEGREE sustainability framework
defines our comprehensive approach to sustainability. Across The DEGREE sustainability framework applies to Siemens AG
six fields of action, the framework defines clear priorities for apart from Siemens Healthineers (SHS), which is an indepen-
us in key sustainability areas that we drive in our own oper- dent stock-listed company. SHS pursues the same values in
ations and in collaboration with our partners, suppliers, and its sustainability concept as Siemens AG, because they
customers. As we approach the target date for several represent our expectations as the majority shareholder.
DEGREE ambitions in fiscal 2025, we look to develop our SHS’s own sustainability approach is described in a dedicated
priorities and ambitions to integrate the expectations of all report. OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
our stakeholders. The fields of action are defined along the
dimensions of Environment, Social, and Governance:
1 Assessment based on a Siemens ESG/Sustainability Index. In fiscal 2024, ESG criteria
include CO2e emissions and digital learning hours.
2 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 19
Pages 20 – 32
Our sustainability
management
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 20
2.1 Materiality assessment
2.1
Materiality assessment
– Materiality assessment based on GRI 2021 ment. These two concepts are not in contradiction; instead,
– 15 material sustainability topics of the greatest they work together to enhance transparency and account-
relevance to Siemens ability in sustainability reporting.
– Material impacts, risks, and opportunities as part
of our strategic considerations The material topics form the framework for implementing
sustainability in the company – at the central corporate
level, in our business units, and in the countries. Siemens
Key topics as guiding principles strives to continuously improve sustainability management
Our materiality assessment is based on external frameworks and understands the materiality assessment to be a prereq-
like the UN Global Compact and the Standards of the Global uisite for identifying and managing impacts, risks, and
Reporting Initiative (GRI 2021), which are the foundation for opportunities.
our reporting. The key topics covered in this report are struc-
tured based on ESG. Identifying and prioritizing the topics
Siemens conducted internal workshops featuring internal
Materiality assessment experts who were able to incorporate the perspectives of
We conducted our materiality assessment with an emphasis relevant stakeholders to help identify our material topics by
on our industrial businesses Digital Industries, Smart Infra- assessing their impacts, risks and opportunities from two
structure, and Mobility in fiscal 2023 based on the GRI 2021 different perspectives:
standards. In fiscal 2024, Siemens reviewed the materiality
assessment and concluded that the outcomes from the → Inside­out perspective:
previous year remain valid. The intention of the assessment Siemens took a closer look at its positive and negative impacts
was to identify our company’s key economic, ecological, and on the environment and society, including impacts on human
social impacts on the environment and society in accordance rights, across its activities and business relationships (inside-
with the GRI 2021 standards. The resulting topics are also in out) caused by the company’s business activities.
harmony with Siemens Healthineers’ (SHS) material topics,
which were determined in an independent materiality During the inside-out assessment, we identified actual and
assessment. potential positive and negative impacts for 17 sustainability
topics and evaluated them according to their likelihood and
In 2024, we prepared in parallel a double materiality assess- their severity. Based on evaluations of the individual impacts,
ment in preparation for the Corporate Sustainability Reporting our material topics were derived. These topics are the foun-
Directive (CSRD; Directive (EU) 2022/2464) and the related dation for determining the content of the GRI report. Includ-
European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) in order ing the outside-in perspective (see below) does not alter the
to define the scope of sustainability reporting based on results.
material sustainability topics to be disclosed as part of the
CSRD Sustainability Statement beginning in fiscal 2025. Both The material topics where Siemens can exert the greatest
concepts (GRI and CSRD) complement each other. Double influence on society and the environment are climate action,
materiality in CSRD terms considers both the financial impact social and ecological standards in the supply chain, and
of sustainability topics on a company and the company’s sustainable product design and lifecycle management. These
impact on society and the environment – while GRI materiality topics received the highest scores in the analysis.
focuses on the company’s impact on society and the environ-
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 21
2.1 Materiality assessment
→ Outside­in perspective: Result of the materiality assessment
The outside-in perspective refers to sustainability topics that We identified 15 material sustainability topics that are of the
can be associated with opportunities and risks for the greatest relevance to Siemens from an inside-out perspec-
company’s business activities or financial situation. This tive. Results from the outside-in perspective supported this
perspective was taken into account in order to introduce the outcome.
double materiality principle of future regulation.
The alignment of our material sustainability topics with the
The material sustainability topics with the highest degree of GRI framework and the SDGs can be found here: ANNEX GRI
influence on our business activities and the generation of INDEX, ANNEX SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
lasting value are climate protection and sustainable product
design and lifecycle management.
Siemens’ material sustainability topics are linked to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They
also serve as the basis for considerations related to our DEGREE sustainability framework as well as our overall portfolio
strategy and customer considerations. STRATEGY
Material sustainability topics SDGs DEGREE
Climate action1 DECARBONIZATION
Innovation and business model DECARBONIZATION
R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY
GOVERNANCE
Cybersecurity and data management E THICS
Social and ecological standards in the supply chain GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance and sustainability leadership GOVERNANCE
Partner management and collaboration GOVERNANCE
DECARBONIZATION
ESG risk management GOVERNANCE
E THICS
Compliance management GOVERNANCE
E THICS
Sustainable product design and lifecycle management1 R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY
Waste and hazardous substance management R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY
Sustainable handling of natural resources and material R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY
efficiency
Diversity, equity, and inclusion E QUITY
Future of work E QUITY
E MPLOYABILITY
Employee development E QUITY
E MPLOYABILITY
Employee health and safety E MPLOYABILITY
1 Top two material sustainability topics.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 22
2.2 Sustainability governance and organization
2.2
Sustainability governance and organization
– Responsibility for sustainability at Siemens lies strategy. The Managing Board aims to ensure that the risks
with the Managing Board and Chief Sustainability and opportunities for Siemens connected with environmental,
Officer, supported by the Siemens Sustainability social, and governance factors and the environmental, social,
Board and governance impacts of Siemens’ activities are system-
– The Sustainability Executive Committee is our atically identified and assessed. The company strategy gives
guidance body for Siemens’ sustainability business due consideration to business targets as well as environmen-
focus concentrating on portfolios, market segments, tal and social objectives. Company planning encompasses
and go­to­market topics both financial targets and sustainability-related objectives.
– ESG criteria are included in the compensation
system for members of the Managing Board and The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Managing
senior managers Board in its management of Siemens’ business. At regular
intervals, the Supervisory Board discusses business develop-
ment, planning, strategy (including sustainability strategy)
At Siemens, sustainability is rooted in all that we do, including and strategy implementation. The Supervisory Board’s
our business purpose and strategy, corporate culture, pro- oversight and advisory activities encompass sustainability-
cesses, and guidelines. The management of sustainability related topics in the environment, social and governance area.
matters is embedded across our Siemens businesses, Service The Managing Board reports regularly to the Supervisory
and Governance units, and countries. Sustainability has also Board on Siemens’ company-wide sustainability strategy and
been an integral component of management compensation on the status of this strategy’s implementation. In addition,
since fiscal 2020. the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee also concern
themselves with sustainability reporting and governance.
Foundation: Corporate governance
We believe that compliance with recognized principles of More detailed information on the structure and responsibilities
corporate governance is the cornerstone of sustainability- of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board can be found
based corporate management. Siemens AG is governed by in the SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT
German corporate law, under which it has a two-tier board REPORT, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
structure consisting of a Managing Board and a Supervisory
Board. Clear organizational structure and
responsibilities
As the top management body, the Managing Board is The Managing Board addresses sustainability-related risks,
responsible for serving Siemens’ best interests and achieving opportunities and impacts of strategic and company-wide
sustainable growth in the company’s value. The members of importance and adopts appropriate measures. The Managing
the Managing Board are jointly responsible for the entire Board also approves any changes to the DEGREE sustainability
management of Siemens and decide on key issues of business framework.
policy and company strategy, including Siemens’ sustainability
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 23
2.2 Sustainability governance and organization
The Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB) monitors and The Siemens Sustainability department is responsible for
resolves Siemens’ sustainability topics, including tracking developing and controlling our DEGREE sustainability frame-
the progress of our DEGREE ambition, providing input and work and ambitions achievements in coordination with the
guidance on sustainability reporting and governance, and SSB, businesses, Service and Governance units, and coun-
acting as a catalyst for regional sustainability initiatives with tries. Responsibility for CSRD and related sustainability
the potential to scale across Siemens. The SSB is composed reporting and the Net Zero Operations Program1 also lies
of representatives from Siemens’ businesses, countries, and with the Sustainability department. It also governs the
Service and Governance units. The SSB meets four times per purchase of carbon credits and the Sustainability related risk
year or more frequently as needed. The SSB provides updates due diligence process in customer related business2. The
and recommendations to the Managing Board. Sustainability department also supports sustainability initia-
tives with scalability across Siemens. This includes develop-
The Sustainability Executive Committee (EC SUS) acts as ing the processes, training, and tools needed to address
guidance body for Siemens sustainability business focus overarching sustainability topics for our countries, busi-
along our value propositions of (i) decarbonization and nesses, and Service and Governance units in collaboration
energy efficiency, (ii) resource efficiency and circularity as with other Siemens organizations. Finally, the Sustainability
well as (iii) people centricity and social impact – with a focus department is responsible for developing strategic consider-
on portfolio market segments and go-to-market topics. It ations for the Siemens sustainability business focus in
meets approximately once per quarter on an ad hoc basis to alignment with the Managing Board, EC SUS, and the CEOs.
discuss relevant issues. Chaired by Siemens’ CEO, the EC SUS
includes Siemens’ Chief Sustainability Officer, the CEOs of CEOs are ultimately responsible for all sustainability topics in
key businesses, Chief Strategy Officer, General Counsel, and their area of responsibility. This includes responsibility for
Global Head of SUS. the sustainability business focus, implementation of DEGREE,
sustainability reporting, and the Sustainability related risk
The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) oversees Siemens’ due diligence process in customer related business.
sustainability topics. The CSO is a member of the Siemens
Managing Board, chairs the Siemens Sustainability Board The CEOs of Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens
(SSB), and is a member of the Sustainability Executive Com- Mobility, and Siemens Financial Services (SFS) are supported
mittee (EC SUS). The CSO is also responsible for the Siemens by their respective Heads of SUS to achieve their sustainability
Sustainability department. mandates. The Heads of SUS also assist the Global Head of
SUS with their responsibilities in the Sustainability depart-
The Global Head of Sustainability (Global Head of SUS) leads ment, as they pertain to their businesses. Heads of SUS have
the Siemens Sustainability department. In this capacity, the a governance reporting line to the Global Head of SUS in
Global Head of SUS reports to the CSO on all Siemens sus- addition to their reporting line to their respective CEOs. The
tainability topics excluding our sustainability business focus Heads of SUS are appointed by the respective CEOs, in align-
and related strategy topics. For the latter topics, the Global ment with the Global Head of SUS.
Head of SUS reports to Siemens’ CEO. The Global Head of
SUS is a regular member of the SSB and the EC SUS. The
Global Head of SUS regularly informs the Supervisory Board
on sustainability matters.
1 Siemens has established the Net Zero Operations Program, which is comprised of a
series of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction initiatives targeting real estate,
production, our vehicle fleet, and related areas in order to address our commitment
to GHG reduction under the DEGREE ambition “Reduce emissions in own operations
by 90% by 2030”. For more details, see chapter 4.1 Climate action.
2 Siemens has established the Sustainability related risk due diligence process in cus-
tomer related business to ensure that environmental, social, and associated human
rights and reputational risks (Sustainability Risks) are appropriately assessed and
mitigated. The Sustainability department, as the governance owner, has established
minimum company-wide standards for the Sustainability related risk due diligence
process in customer related business that are applicable to the businesses and to SFS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 24
2.2 Sustainability governance and organization
In addition, the CEOs of the business units in Digital Industries, Our Service and Governance units are responsible for the
Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS each appoint ongoing development of sustainability-related topics within
Sustainability Managers who have a governance reporting their own mandate in line with the DEGREE sustainability
line to the Heads of SUS and to their reporting line to their framework and regulatory, reporting and organizational
respective CEOs. requirements. These topics include environmental protection,
employee health and safety, compliance, and supply chain
Lead Country SUS Managers support their respective Lead management sustainability topics.
Country CEOs and their assigned countries. They also lead
Siemens’ sustainability topics within the scope of responsibility Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Subject Matter Experts are
of Lead Country management. appointed by and support Digital Industries, Smart Infra-
structure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS to responsibly conduct
the Sustainability related risk due diligence process in cus-
tomer related business.
CEOs in the businesses and lead countries are responsible for anchoring sustainability in their organizations.
Overview of roles and responsibilities
Supervisory Board
Managing Board incl. Chief Sustainability Officer
Sustainability Executive Committee Siemens Sustainability Board
Sustainability Organization incl. Global Head of Sustainability
Business and SFS
Service & Governance units
Countries
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 25
2.2 Sustainability governance and organization
Sustainability reflected in management
compensation G overnance
Sustainability has been reflected in management compensa-
Progress on DEGREE ambition #5:
tion since 2020, especially as long-term incentives. In the
Long-term incentives based on ESG criteria
current compensation system for the members of the Man-
aging Board of Siemens AG, which has been in place since Siemens grants long-term variable compensation in
fiscal 2024, the potential share of sustainability incentives in the form of stock awards. For Managing Board mem-
the long-term incentives has been increased. The incorpora- bers at Siemens AG, long-term variable compensation
tion of ESG criteria in the long-term incentives is defined in represents at least 30% of their total target compen-
the Governance field of action in our DEGREE sustainability sation. Since fiscal 2020, the stock awards have been
framework. The long-term variable compensation of Manag- allocated depending on a comparison of total share-
ing Board members is assessed against the Siemens ESG/ holder return (TSR) with an international sector index
Sustainability Index. Additional sustainability topics are also (the MSCI World Industrials Index) and on a Siemens
defined as individual targets as part of the short-term vari- ESG/Sustainability index, with a weighting of 20%.
able compensation (bonus) of Managing Board members. The composition of the Siemens ESG/Sustainability
SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, Index is determined annually by the Supervisory
COMPENSATION REPORT 2024 Board. It comprises one or more equally weighted,
structured, and verifiable (limited-assurance) ESG key
performance indicators. These indicators reflect
relevant strategic and socio-political topics and are
aligned with our DEGREE ambition. For the long-term
incentive plan starting in fiscal 2024 this index
includes CO2e emissions and digital learning hours.
These criteria are also applicable to all senior manag-
ers globally who are eligible for stock awards. We are
proud to have incorporated ESG criteria in Siemens’
long-term incentives since 2020.
OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
Progress
ESG criteria anchored
Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 26
2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability
2.3
Partnerships and collaborations for
sustainability
– We collaborate closely with our stakeholders Our political involvement is guided by strong principles:
– Partnerships are key to long­term sustainable
b usiness success → We are politically neutral and take a zero-tolerance
– Siemens is an active member of numerous business approach to corruption, violations of fair competition
associations and organizations principles, and other breaches of applicable laws and
internal regulations.
→ Siemens does not make political donations or contributions
Siemens is active in nearly all countries of the world. We to politicians, political parties, or political organizations.
believe that close collaborations with our stakeholders → Any contributions that support purely political purposes
enables us to make serious progress on complex sustainability or the representation of political interests – for instance,
challenges. We maintain a consistent dialog with all our election events for political campaigns – are prohibited by
stakeholders, including customers, investors, suppliers, our our internal guidelines.
people, communities, policymakers, media, non-govern-
mental organizations, business organizations, and academia. Engagement in associations and organizations
In addition, our DEGREE sustainability framework is also Siemens is a member of numerous business associations and
based on a 360-degree stakeholder approach. other organizations, some of which advocate for their mem-
bers’ interests in the political arena. Selected examples of
In dialog with politics and society the most important memberships are:
Our Managing Board, CEOs, and governance departments in
our business units oversee stakeholder engagement. The → The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
overall responsibility for Siemens’ dialog with policymakers → The German Mechanical Engineering Industry Association
lies with our Managing Board, which has given the Govern- (VDMA)
ment Affairs department a mandate for company-wide → The German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’
coordination tasks and the corresponding governance Association (ZVEI)
responsibilities. Within the business units, the unit’s CEO is → The European Round Table for Industry (ERT)
responsible for a coordinated dialog with the policymakers. → Digital Europe
→ Business Europe
The way that regulations and legislation are shaped affects → The U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Siemens and our products and solutions in many ways. → The American European Community Association (AECA)
Therefore, we believe that maintaining an ongoing dialog → The European Chamber of Commerce in China (EUCCC)
with political decision-makers is crucial for our company’s
success and for our commitment to sustainability. More information on political activities at Siemens can be
found on our GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS WEBSITE.
We prioritize our activities based on our business strategies
and innovation fields. As a result, our advocacy activities We have joined forces with leading companies from around
focus on but are not limited to the following topics: compet- the world to establish the Charter of Trust, which aims to
itiveness; digitalization; cybersecurity; climate protection; make the digital world safer and more secure.
environment; energy; connected and automated mobility; WWW.CHARTEROFTRUST.COM
research, development, innovation, and skills; trade policy;
sustainability-related reporting legislation.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 27
2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability
We also support the goal of achieving a carbon-neutral Siemens is part of the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing Leader-
Europe by 2050, which was announced as part of the Euro- ship Coalition (CPLC), and we advocate for the global intro-
pean Green Deal. We will achieve this through a variety of duction of carbon pricing. We are likewise committed to the
commitments, including our active memberships in the UNGC Women’s Empowerment Principle and have signed the
EUROPEAN ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY and the EUROPEAN GREEN Diversity Charter, an initiative of the German government.
DIGITAL COALITION. We actively participate in cross-topic partnerships with orga-
nizations like the World Business Council for Sustainable
Siemens collaborates with numerous strategic sustainability Development (WBCSD) to promote a holistic sustainability
partners globally on the topics of decarbonization and transformation.
energy efficiency, resource efficiency and circularity, and
people centricity and societal impact. With their extended For over ten years we have supported One Young World
reach and potential to expand collaborative efforts, our (OYW), a non-profit organization that assists young leaders
partnerships help drive us toward the standardization around the globe in building a better world through more
required to address environmental and social impacts and responsible, more effective leadership. We championed the
enable sustainable outcomes at scale. For instance, Siemens 2024 OYW Summit in Montreal by sending 45 of our Siemens
works closely with the Organization for Economic Coopera- colleagues to participate. We also contribute high-profile
tion and Development (OECD), the United Nations (UN), the speakers to the Summits.
European Union, and the World Economic Forum (WEF). We
support the United Nations Framework Convention on Our selected strategic sustainability partnerships are listed
Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the UN Climate Change below.
Conferences, and we are actively involved in the CEO Water
Mandate. Siemens participates in a number of WEF initia-
tives, including the WEF CEO Climate Leaders Coalition. At
Climate Week NYC, we collaborate on climate action with
stakeholders across the world.
Partnership organization Description
Decarbonization and energy efficiency
The Climate Group Climate Week NYC is hosted by Climate Group. Featuring more than 500 events, Climate Week NYC takes
→ Climate Week NYC place every year in partnership with the United Nations General Assembly and is run in coordination with
→ EV100 the United Nations and the City of New York. The 15th annual summit was held September 2024.
→ EP100 The EV100 initiative expedites the shift to electric vehicles (EVs). Siemens intends for EVs to account for
→ RE100 100% of its fleet by 2030. We are also investing in the establishment of charging infrastructure in the
same timeframe.
EP100 brings together over 125 ambitious businesses committed to improving energy efficiency. Siemens
is committed to owning only building assets that are Net Zero carbon in operation and occupying only
assets that are Net Zero carbon in operation by 2030.
RE100 unites hundreds of ambitious companies committed to 100% renewable electricity. Siemens is
committed to reaching this target by 2030.
United Nations The United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) is the world’s highest decision-making body on climate
→ Conference of the Parties (COP) issues. COP connects stakeholders from politics, society, and business for discussions about the global path
→ Global Compact (UNGC) Working to Net Zero. COP provides a unique opportunity to showcase how Siemens acts in scaling sustainability
Group on Climate impact and empowering customers and societies to drive their sustainable transformation. The 28th session
of the COP was held in Dubai, UAE in 2023.
The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. It calls
for companies to align their strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor,
environment, and anti-corruption. Siemens is active in the UNGC’s Working Group on Climate.
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Better Buildings is an Initiative of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that is designed to improve the
Better Buildings initiative lives of the American people by driving leadership in energy innovation. Siemens is an active participant in
the initiative’s Better Climate Challenge.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 28
2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability
The World Bank Carbon Pricing The Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) brings together leaders from government, the private
Leadership Coalition (CPLC) sector, academia, and civil society to expand the use of carbon pricing policies. Siemens is a member of
the coalition and actively advocates for the global introduction of carbon pricing.
The World Economic Forum (WEF) The World Economic Forum (WEF) is the international organization for public-private cooperation. The
→ Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders is a CEO-led community committed to defining bold climate goals and
→ Clean Power, Grids and Electrification accelerating the Net Zero transition by setting science-based targets, disclosing emissions, and catalyzing
decarbonization and partnerships across global value chains.
The Clean Power, Grids and Electrification initiative mobilizes collaborative actions to deliver a rapid and
responsible energy transition through increasing clean power, optimizing grids and modernizing energy
consumption.
Additionally, Siemens is an active partner and member in the Steering Committee of the Circular Transfor-
mation of Industries, as described below.
Resource efficiency and circularity
The European Union (EU) Business The EU Business and Biodiversity Platform provides a unique forum for dialog and a policy interface for
and Biodiversity Platform discussing the links between business and biodiversity at the EU level. Siemens is an active member of the
Platform.
The European Union (EU) Circular The EU Circular Plastics Alliance aims to boost the EU market for recycled plastics. The Alliance covers the
Plastics Alliance Declaration full plastics value chain and includes over 330 organizations representing industry, academia, and public
authorities. Siemens is an active member of the Alliance.
The Federation of German Industries The BDI Circular Economy Initiative is a network of about 60 organizations across the entire industrial
(BDI) Circular Economy Initiative spectrum. Siemens is a founding member of the Circular Economy Initiative.
Responsible Minerals Initiative The Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) is one of the most utilized and respected resources used by
(RMI) companies in a variety of industries for addressing responsible minerals sourcing issues in their supply
chains. Siemens is an active member of RMI and is involved in advancing the topic of responsible minerals
sourcing at Siemens.
The World Economic Forum (WEF) The WEF Circular Transformation of Industries is a cross-industry, multi-stakeholder initiative that enables a
Circular Transformation of Industries growing, resilient and sustainable economy through the adoption of circularity at scale. Siemens is an
active partner and member in the initiative’s Steering Committee.
People centricity and societal impact
The European Union (EU) Agency for EU-OSHA is the EU’s information agency overseeing occupational safety and health at work. Siemens is a
Safety and Health at Work (OSHA) partner of the EU-OSHA Healthy Workplaces Campaign and is committed to championing safe and healthy
work in the digital age.
Charter of Trust Our commitment to cybersecurity is reinforced by Siemens’ participation in founding the Charter of Trust
initiative to protect data and promote cybersecurity in a trustworthy digital world.
Global Business Initiative (GBI) on GBI is a business organization that focuses entirely on human rights with the objective to shape practice,
Human Rights inspire commitment and build capability to implement respect for human rights, in line with the UN Guid-
ing Principles on Business and Human Rights. Siemens is both company and Steering Group member of
GBI.
The International Organisation of The IOE GOSH is a network of more than 150 member organizations focused on improving occupational
Employers (IOE) Global Occupational health and safety, providing forums to identify and, discuss emerging trends and international best practices.
and Health Network (GOSH) Siemens is an active member of the Network.
One Young World (OYW) One Young World (OYW) is a non-profit organization that empowers and develops young leaders to build
a fair, sustainable future for all. Siemens has been an active partner of OYW for over a decade, with over
500 Siemens delegates having participated the annual OYW Summits since they began.
United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. It calls
(UNGC) European Working Group on for companies to align their strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor,
Business and Human Rights environment, and anti-corruption. Siemens is a member of the European Working Group on Business and
Human Rights.
G7 and the International Labour The Vision Zero Fund is an initiative of the G7 countries aimed at preventing work-related deaths, injuries,
Organization (ILO) Vision Zero Fund and disease in sectors operating in or aspiring to join global supply chains. The ILO administers and
implements the fund’s projects. Siemens was the first private sector donor to join the fund.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 29
2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability
The World Economic Forum (WEF) Siemens is an active member in various WEF groups relevant for people centricity and societal impact.
→ AI Governance Alliance The AI Governance Alliance promotes the development and deployment of AI systems that are transparent,
→ Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officers inclusive, and ethically sound. The Alliance aims to drive innovation and growth.
→ Chief Health Officer Group The Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officers community drives impact for inclusive corporate cultures and
→ Chief Learning Officers long-term inclusive change.
The Chief Health Officer Group works to advance the overall well-being of the workforce.
The Chief Learning Officers community helps companies focus on continuously updating their talent’s
skills to remain agile in an evolving landscape.
Support for non­profit organizations So far, we have allocated about US$120 million to 85 projects in more than 50 countries across all funding
that promote business integrity rounds. Information is available on the INTEGRITY INITIATIVE WEBSITE and the SIEMENS INTEGRITY
and the fight against corruption INITIATIVE REPORT 2023.
worldwide
Cross­topic partnerships
The Conference Board (TCB) The Conference Board (TCB) is a non-profit corporate membership and research organization that organizes
conferences and peer learning groups, conducts economic and business research, and publishes economic
indicators. Siemens is active in multiple TCB Councils on topics like corporate sustainability, the environment,
and well-being.
econsense Econsense is a German economic sustainability network whose members’ objective is to actively shape the
transition to a more sustainable economy. Siemens is a founding member of econsense, member of the
Board of Trustees and the Executive Board, and an active participant in working groups on Environment,
Climate, Disclosure and Reporting, Business and Human Rights, and Human Rights in the Supply Chain.
The World Business Council for The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a community of over 200 leading
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) organizations that are working together to take action to limit the climate crisis, restore nature, and tackle
inequality. Siemens has actively participated in a number of workstreams, including those focused on
carbon accounting and reduction and the sustainable built environment.
The World Economic Forum (WEF) The Global Future Council on the Future of Advanced Manufacturing and Value Chains is a knowledge
Global Future Council on the Future network dedicated to promoting innovative thinking to shape a more resilient, inclusive, and sustainable
of Advanced Manufacturing and future through the manufacturing industry. Due to its global reach and impact, the manufacturing industry
Value Chains is uniquely positioned to address the big challenges of our time.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 30
2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance
2.4
Sustainability ratings reflect our performance
– Our sustainability approach is recognized in a ESG ratings in fiscal 2024
number of ratings EcoVadis
– These ratings help us continuously improve our EcoVadis provides supplier sustainability ratings for global
sustainability performance supply chains. Siemens improved its score to 80 points in
– They also strengthen the comparability and 2024, placing it among the top 1% of all companies assessed
transparency of our sustainability performance by EcoVadis. Thanks to this rating, Siemens is being awarded
for our customers and investors the EcoVadis Platinum medal.
CDP
Our approach to ESG ratings CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs a global disclosure
We are proud that our commitment to sustainability and our system that helps investors, companies, cities, states, and
efforts are reflected in public ESG assessments and ratings. regions manage their environmental impacts. In the most
Siemens actively participates in several sustainability ratings recent CDP Climate Change Rating, Siemens improved its
to provide capital market participants and our customers score from previously A– to A, and has been included in
with robust information and support the comparability and CDP’s annual Climate Change A List, the highest possible
transparency of our sustainability performance. Ratings also performance ranking and “gold standard” for corporate climate
give us important insights that assist in our continuous and environmental leadership.
improvement. We focus primarily on the six ratings summa-
rized below. S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA)/
Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
Siemens continues to achieve strong results in external sus- The S&P Global CSA is an annual evaluation of companies’
tainability ratings in fiscal 2024, confirming our leading sustainability practices. The CSA focuses on sustainability
position in the industry. criteria that are both industry-specific and financially material.
In fiscal 2024, Siemens again ranks second among our
It is important to note that industry classification can have a industry peers (Industrial Conglomerates) with a score of
strong impact on rating scores. Siemens is typically classified 78/100. Siemens has been listed in the Dow Jones Sustain-
in Industrial Conglomerates, which is often associated with ability World Index (DJSI World) for over 20 years.
a stricter evaluation than other categories like Electrical
Equipment (for instance, in Sustainalytics). Therefore, Siemens’ Sustainalytics
scores are not always comparable with those of competitors. Sustainalytics' ESG Risk Ratings measure a company’s expo-
sure to industry-specific material ESG risks and how well a
company is managing those risks. In 2024, Siemens was
once again rated as one of the leading companies in our
industry (Industrial Conglomerates) and have slightly
improved our risk rating over the previous year with a score
of 25.6 points (Medium Risk).
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 31
2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance
MSCI ISS ESG
The MSCI ESG Rating scores global companies on a scale The ISS ESG Corporate Rating evaluates companies’ ESG-
from AAA (leader) to CCC (laggard) based on exposure to related risks, opportunities, and impacts along the corporate
industry- specific ESG risks and the ability to manage those value chain. Companies are rated from D– to A+ on their
risks relative to peers. In fiscal 2024, Siemens was again sustainability performance based on an absolute best-in-
given an overall MSCI ESG rating score of AA. Siemens is also class standard. For ISS ESG, Siemens again received prime
a member of the MSCI World ESG Index. status and improved its rating to B, the best rating in our
industry (Industrial Conglomerates). Prime status recognizes
companies for being one of the leaders in their respective
industry.
Siemens’ sustainability performance has received high recognition in external ratings
External
sustainability
ratings
Latest Siemens
80 A 78/100 25.6 AA B
score
Top in industry
Siemens
Top 1% (industry Top 2% Top 8% Leader 1st in our industry
industry rank
average C)
Progress from
Improvement Improvement Improvement
previous +3 points –3 points Unchanged
from A– of 2.8 points from B–
assessment
Over 10 years Strong “Carbon –
at leadership Over 20 years in Products and Leader (AAA/AA)
Highlights Platinum medal Prime status
level (A/A–) for the World Index Services” risk for 10 years
Climate Change management
Siemens has also satisfied the requirements to be included in several additional ESG stock market indices
Additional Included in the Included in the
ESG indices FTSE4Good Index Series Euronext Vigeo Euro 120 Index
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 32
Pages 33 – 60
Governance
Responsible Business
Practices
Ethics Governance
Foster a culture of trust, adhere to ethical standards, Apply state-of-the-art systems for effective and
and handle data with care responsible business conduct
Our key ambitions1 Our key ambitions1
→ Striving to train 100% of our people on Siemens’ → ESG-secured supply chain based on supplier
Business Conduct Guidelines every three years commitment to the Supplier Code of Conduct
→ Long-term incentives based on ESG criteria2
Additional highlights:
→ Zero-tolerance approach to breaches of applicable Additional highlights
laws and our own internal guidelines → Focus on human rights within supply chain: climate
→ A global, risk-based compliance system protection, occupational safety, and responsible
→ We ensure the development and use of responsible sourcing of minerals
artificial intelligence → Siemens established a cross-functional Generative
→ We are aiming for a leading role in cybersecurity AI Governance task force
→ Our Generative AI Requirements serve as a product-
and solution-focused process-agnostic framework
for Generative AI
1 Siemens without SHS.
2 Assessment based on a Siemens ESG/Sustainability Index. Currently, ESG criteria include CO2e emissions and digital learning hours.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 33
3.1 Compliance and ethics
3.1
Compliance and ethics
– Zero­tolerance approach to breaches of applicable Our Compliance governance and policies
laws and our internal guidelines The Siemens Compliance organization oversees our compli-
– A global, risk­based compliance system ance system. It is headed by our Chief Compliance Officer,
– Ethics and integrity are the basis for sustainable who is responsible for all legal and operational aspects of
business practices compliance. The Compliance organization is part of the
– Responsible AI development and adoption Siemens global Legal and Compliance department. It is led
by the General Counsel, who reports directly to our CEO.
Management approach The Siemens Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to
Operating with integrity and in compliance with laws and Siemens’ CEO on functional matters, in addition to reporting
regulation is fundamental to stakeholder trust and our com- to the Managing Board and the Siemens AG Supervisory
pany’s continued success. Siemens’ business and compliance Board on a quarterly and ad-hoc basis.
environment is complex. Siemens and its roughly 327,000
employees operate in multiple countries around the world. Compliance Officers that are embedded in the business
Our customers in both the private and public sectors serve a ensure that our Compliance system is implemented world-
vast array of industries. Our global business operations are wide. They work closely with our employees and managers.
governed by numerous national legal systems and take place
in a variety of political, social, and cultural settings that are The entire management team is responsible and accountable
constantly changing. for taking business decisions in line with relevant legal
requirements, our values, and company guidelines.
The way that Siemens and our partners – which include
suppliers, intermediaries, resellers, and consortium part- At Siemens, we have zero-tolerance for corruption and all
ners – do business impact the markets and societies where other breaches of laws, and of our Business Conduct Guide-
we operate. Unethical and unlawful conduct such as corrup- lines (BCGs).
tion, cartel arrangements, and money laundering can distort
competition, hinder economic development, and threaten Our BCGs contain the behavioral principles and rules that
human rights and democracy. As a global player, Siemens is guide our conduct within Siemens and in our stakeholder
responsible for setting an example in its own operations and relationships. They also serve as an expression of our values
in collaboration with its stakeholders. Through Collective and lay the foundation for detailed internal regulations. The
Action together with stakeholders from politics, business, BCGs are binding for all our people around the world.
and society, we build alliances against corruption and thus
support establishing the conditions for fair competition. We aspire to support the sustainable development of
Siemens and the societies where we operate by adhering to
responsible business practices and our Ethical Principles.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 34
3.1 Compliance and ethics
Worldwide commitment to fighting corruption The Siemens compliance system
In collaboration with other international and national The goal of compliance at Siemens is to ensure that our
organizations, we are committed to fighting corruption and worldwide business practices follow the applicable laws and
promoting fair competition in our markets and beyond. comply with the BCGs. Our Compliance organization covers
the following activity fields:
This approach is also reflected in our Collective Action activ-
ities, which includes our commitment to: → Anti-corruption
→ Anti-money laundering
→ The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) → Anti-trust
→ The World Economic Forum and its Partnering Against → Data privacy
Corruption Initiative (PACI) → Export control
→ The United Nations Convention Against Corruption and → Human rights
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- HUMAN RIGHTS, CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY
ment (OECD)’s Anti-Bribery Convention
→ The implementation of these conventions as part of Busi- The Siemens compliance system is based on three pillars:
ness 20 (B20) prevention, detection, and response.
The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, the OECD Preventive measures include compliance risk management,
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and other key topic-specific guidelines and procedures, the incorporation
guidelines are embedded in our BCGs and provide a founda- of compliance requirements into business processes, Collec-
tion and direction for all our activities. BUSINESS CONDUCT tive Action activities, and providing comprehensive training
GUIDELINES and advice to our people.
“We help our customers and Detective measures include our Compliance Control Program
partners around the world to (CCP) and channels for reporting compliance violations,
including our whistle-blower system (the “Tell Us” hotline),
become more competitive, resilient,
the Ombudsperson, and professional and fair investigations.
and sustainable. In all our
These are indispensable for identifying and resolving individ-
interactions, and without ual misconduct. Our reporting channels also allow our peo-
ple to submit reports anonymously.
exceptions, we always act ethically,
legally, and with the highest
We believe that transparent communication and clear conse-
integrity.” quences help reduce and resolve incidents of individual
CEO Roland Busch misconduct. Our internal audit department also continuously
performs compliance controls and audits to ensure that our
compliance system is put into action and meets our world-
wide requirements.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 35
3.1 Compliance and ethics
The Siemens compliance system
Prevent
Management
responsibility
R
e
s
p
o n
d et
ect
D
Activity fields
Anti-Corruption Anti-Trust Export Control
Anti-Money Laundering Data Privacy Human Rights
Ethics management at Siemens In the complex global environment, “doing the right thing” is
We are committed to ethical behavior in our business activities. not always easy. Our Ethical Principles, related training,
This goes beyond laws and regulations. Through ethical communication, awareness measures, and guidance from
behavior we consider the needs and rights of society and our Compliance Officers help drive ethical behavior through-
the consequences of our long-term actions, and it strikes out the organization and resolve potential business dilemmas.
a balance between social, environmental, and economic Our Ethics Expert Group, comprised of Compliance profes-
considerations. sionals, provides advice on ethical conflicts and dilemmas,
supports the consistent application of our Ethical Principles,
Our Ethical Principles are integrated into our BCGs: and assists in developing positions on strategically important
matters.
→ We are honest and truthful in our dealings
→ We respect the dignity, privacy, and inherent rights of Collaboration with business partners
individuals Our business partners are carefully selected and undergo a
→ We protect the health, occupational safety, and personal risk-based compliance due diligence process. Business partners
security of our people are also monitored for the duration of the business relation-
→ We act in line with our responsibility for the environment ship to assess the need for their continued services.
→ We engage with reputable and law-abiding partners
→ We explore ethical concerns We have established mandatory processes and the associated
tools for this purpose that are continuously refined to cover
any risks that may arise.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 36
3.1 Compliance and ethics
Decisions about engaging a business partner are transparent Reports received through these channels are forwarded to
and risk-oriented. They are also based on the most recent our Compliance organization. Complaints can also be
compliance due diligence procedures. Appropriate remediation reported directly to the Compliance Officers in our business
measures are initiated depending on the risk classification of units or to the senior management. Whistle-blowers at
the business relationship and the risks identified. Siemens are protected by national laws and also by internal
company regulations that prohibit the punishment or other
Both business partners and suppliers are required to sign a detrimental treatment of anyone who reports a suspicious
code of conduct. In addition, depending on their risk classi- activity in good faith.
fication, audits can be conducted on the business partners’
premises by the Siemens audit function or external service Every complaint is taken seriously. If the allegations prove to
providers. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES be sufficiently plausible, the Compliance organization deter-
mines whether there is sufficient information to justify an
Preventing money laundering and terrorism internal investigation. Indications about other matters are
financing forwarded to the affected Siemens department or business
Siemens strives to only maintain business relationships with unit for further action.
reputable customers, suppliers, partners, and companies
whose business activities comply with legal requirements Internal investigations are conducted based on binding,
and whose financial resources are of legitimate origin. We defined standards to ensure the fair and respectful treatment
use a risk-based approach to verify the identity and economic of people. These standards prohibit unlawful or dispropor-
background of customers, suppliers, business partners, and tionate actions. However, if an internal investigation leads to
other third parties and the origin of payments to ensure they the finding that an employee has demonstrably violated any
come from legitimate sources. When necessary, Siemens laws or internal regulations, they can expect appropriate
reports suspicious activities to law enforcement authorities. disciplinary consequences.
Handling of compliance cases All circumstances within a compliance case, including the
At Siemens, compliance cases are handled in accordance locally applicable legal environment and any participation
with a structured process that includes key steps such as rights of the competent employee representative bodies, are
reporting channels, internal investigations, and responses to duly considered during the proceedings.
identified violations (see the diagram below).
Affected Siemens businesses are obligated to implement the
Siemens offers a range of reporting channels to enable all additional recommendations of the investigation reports,
our people and outside third parties to flag potential compli- including measures to effectively remedy the situation.
ance violations to the company. For instance, complaints can
be reported by way of the protected whistle-blower system
“Tell Us” or to the independent Siemens Ombudsperson.
Company-wide process for handling compliance cases (simplified presentation)
Compliance
investigation
Assessment
carried out by
examining or Preparation of Disciplinary
Research
Allegation received evaluating the Mandating Investigation the investigation measures and
and planning
allegation before report remediation
mandating an
investigation
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 37
3.1 Compliance and ethics
Compliance risk management
To be effective, the Siemens compliance system needs to be E Ethics
continuously adjusted in order to meet business-specific
Progress on DEGREE ambition #3:
risks and multiple local legal requirements. The findings
Striving to train 100% of our people on
from compliance risk assessments, along with compliance
Siemens’ Business Conduct Guidelines
controls and audits, help us identify opportunities to further
every three years
develop the compliance system.
As part of the DEGREE sustainability framework,
The goal of compliance risk management is to detect compli- Siemens has set itself the ambition of training all
ance risks early and take appropriate steps to prevent or employees on BCGs in a three-year cycle. The current
mitigate risks. Risk assessments and tool solutions that cycle started in fiscal 2023. By end of this fiscal year
support risk evaluations are also integrated into individual the BCG training “Doing the right thing!” has been
business processes to support our employees in taking rolled out to 97% of all active employees worldwide
appropriate risk mitigation steps. with a current KPI result of 91% trained employees.
Therefore, the DEGREE ambition for Ethics is on track.
Compliance risk management is an integral part of the OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
company-wide Siemens Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
program SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT­ Progress
REPORT, 8.3.1 STRATEGIC RISKS, which provides a holistic view of From FY 23 91% 100% by 2025
all identified risks throughout the Group. Every business and
Siemens without SHS.
region assess their business risks in relation to compliance
risks. Current developments are also systematically evaluated.
As a core part of our risk management process, we collaborate
closely with relevant business units to identify and assess Targets
compliance risks within new digital business models. Contin- Our ethics approach is also embedded in our DEGREE
uous Compliance Risk Management implements a bottom-up sustainability framework within the field of action Ethics.
evaluation of the local risk environment in each of Siemens’
businesses on a worldwide basis in all activity fields defined Actions and results
by Compliance. CEOs, business leaders, Compliance Officers, In fiscal 2024, we continued to improve our Siemens compli-
and experts from every business meet during the fiscal year ance system, including:
to identify and assess compliance risks.1 The risks identified
are then aggregated and presented during annual Compliance → Enhancing our integrated risk management approach
Risk and Performance Reviews to the Compliance Manage- with updated technology to better continuously monitor
ment Council. The risks are documented in the Compliance and update risks. This enables us to rapidly adapt to factors
Risk Tracking tool. like emerging risks, business transformation, and changing
regulatory and geopolitical conditions.
Additional information from internal data sources is included → We are transforming and modernizing the technology
to provide a holistic overview of compliance risks. Cross- that supports our compliance management system in
functional knowledge exchanges take place at regular order to keep pace with the digital transformation of our
meetings, and an annual Corporate Compliance Risk Work- company. This includes our new cloud-based solutions,
shop helps us identify and monitor emerging or changing which we have leveraged to further streamline and auto-
risks. The results of the risk assessments are a key starting mate our risk-based compliance processes and support
point for the ongoing development of our compliance system. data-driven holistic risk management and continuous
control activities. With these cloud-based solutions, we
aim to improve assurance and efficiency of compliance
1 At SHS, formal Compliance Risk Assessments are conducted every three years, with
the last being performed in fiscal 2023. activities at Siemens.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 38
3.1 Compliance and ethics
→ We launched Siemens’ first Global Ethics Month in February In our Integrity Dialogs, managers discuss and raise aware-
2024 as part of our efforts to foster a culture of integrity ness of current compliance topics with their teams.
and strengthen awareness of Ethics at Siemens. To achieve
this, we implemented a wide variety of engagement Non-mandatory learning products in diverse formats are also
formats targeting all employees globally. They were presented in the form of learning paths in our global learning
complemented by local initiatives in the different regions platform My Learning World.
that were led by Compliance Officers to contextualize
Ethics in local settings. By offering one focus topic per The BCG training was rolled out to 118,000 employees
week and engaging employees in diverse activities, we worldwide, and 102,000 of them (approximately 86%) had
aimed to enhance the understanding of and confidence in successfully completed the training in fiscal 2024.
ethical decision-making and practices at Siemens.
→ We introduced the Ethics Foundation training to provide
102,000
our employees with a solid grounding in our Ethical
Principles and express Siemens’ expectations of ethical employees were trained on the
decision-making at Siemens. This training was designed to content of our BCGs in fiscal 2024
build a strong ethical foundation by enhancing knowledge
and understanding of ethical standards, equipping Siemens employees around the world also completed about
employees to handle ethical challenges with both confi- 418,000 training programs for specific target groups in fiscal
dence and integrity in their daily work. 2024.3
Compliance training “Ethical corporate governance and
To ensure that compliance and integrity are embedded compliance are non negotiable. Our
throughout the organization, Siemens employees and the
approach goes beyond strict
Compliance organization receive targeted, group-oriented,
compliance with laws and
risk-based training on compliance topics.
regulations by placing integrity at
Our employees learn through mandatory web-based trainings
the center of our corporate culture
and non-mandatory learning products about compliance
and business processes.”
topics and on the content of our BCGs. We train all our active
employees (full-time and part-time) worldwide and also CEO Roland Busch
recommend the offering also to external and temporary
(third-party) employees.2 Employers of external employees Compliance indicators and whistle-blowers
and/or the external employees are contractually obligated to Our people use our reporting channels regularly. A total of
comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct and must ensure 417 compliance cases that required an inquiry or investigation
compliance by external employees as part of the onboarding were reported in fiscal 2024. The total number of disciplinary
process. measures imposed for compliance violations was 200 in
fiscal 2024.
We strive to train every employee worldwide on the BCGs in
a recurring three-year cycle, according to the Ethics DEGREE The number of disciplinary measures in a fiscal year does not
ambition. The new three-year cycle started in fiscal 2023. In necessarily reflect the number of compliance cases reported
July 2023, the rollout of an update to our BCG web-based in the same period. This is because disciplinary action may
training began, which now includes our Ethical Principles. not be taken in the same year as the case was reported or
when the investigation was completed. Furthermore, one
compliance case may result in multiple disciplinary actions
or none at all.
2 The hiring manager is responsible to assess and assign necessary trainings to third
party workers according to their role and tasks. 3 This figure includes Siemens Healthineers employees.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 39
3.1 Compliance and ethics
Compliance indicators¹ Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity
Initiative
Fiscal year
We believe that in order for substantial progress to be made
2024 2023
in combating corruption and fostering fair competition,
Compliance cases reported 417 416
large numbers of stakeholders must act collectively.
Disciplinary sanctions 200 166
therein warnings 108 87
The Siemens global Integrity Initiative earmarks more than
therein dismissals 80 43
US$100 million to support organizations and projects that
therein other² 12 36
combat corruption and fraud through Collective Action,
1 Continuing and discontinued operations.
education, and training.
2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation components, transfer, and
suspension.
The Siemens Integrity Initiative focuses on supporting proj-
We believe that the evidence demonstrates that our compli- ects that have a clear impact on the business environment,
ance system is well-designed and effectively implemented. can demonstrate objective and measurable results, and have
Due to the nature of our business operations, the environ- the potential to be scaled up and replicated.
ments where we work, and our company’s geographic distri-
bution, we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual. The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes one element of a
2009 settlement between Siemens and the World Bank and
More information on significant ongoing and future charges another 2013 settlement between Siemens and the Euro-
of corruption, antitrust violations, and other violations of the pean Investment Bank (EIB). As of May 2, 2024, the full
law can be found in SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED amount of both settlements has been committed to 85
MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8.3.4 COMPLIANCE RISKS, AND NOTES TO projects in over 50 countries across all Funding Rounds, and
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, NOTE 22 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Siemens has disbursed all funds to Project Partners in accor-
dance with the Funding Agreements, Budgets, and Work-
Stakeholder involvement in our compliance plans outlined in the Settlement agreements. Detailed
approach information on this subject is provided in the Siemens
Compliance-related questions are included in the annual Integrity Initiative’s annual reports.
Siemens Global Engagement Survey in order to evaluate the
effectiveness of the compliance system within the company. The Siemens Integrity Initiative is working on a continued
We also use the survey to acquire a better understanding of visionary concept that focuses on sustaining the progress of
the degree to which ethical conduct is embedded in our our Collective Action, education, and training in the fight
corporate culture. The results of last year’s survey show against corruption and fraud.
continuous high approval rates relative to the perception WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INTEGRITY­INITIATIVE
and awareness of integrity, ethics, and responsible business
conduct throughout the organization with increasing overall
response rates from 64% in fiscal 2023 to 68% in fiscal 2024.
US$120 million in support for
85 projects in over 50 countries
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 40
3.1 Compliance and ethics
Responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI)
To institutionalize this effort, Siemens has established a
cross-functional Generative AI Governance task force con-
AI-driven technologies offer significant opportunities for sisting of experts from Siemens Technology, Information
innovation, creativity, and scaling sustainability impacts. Technology, Cybersecurity, and the Legal & Compliance
Siemens AI technologies aim to improve energy efficiency in departments. This task force oversees the evaluation, devel-
data centers, reduce downtime through predictive mainte- opment, and implementation of strategies and guidelines
nance, and accelerate innovation with generative design for effective Generative AI governance within Siemens. By
solutions to reduce CO2 emissions. AI technologies may also involving experts from a number of different departments,
come with risks. Responsible AI at Siemens means striving to Siemens aims to ensure a comprehensive and institutional-
address these risks at an early stage, counteracting undesir- ized approach to Generative AI governance.
able effects, and carefully balancing them against potential
opportunities. As a global player within a broad network of “The future of industry is being
customers and partners, we recognize that our business has written in algorithms and data. With
impacts on the markets and societies where we operate.
AI, we’re not just keeping pace —
Siemens is therefore committed to setting an example in all
we’re setting the pace for what’s
its operations and in collaborations with its stakeholders.
next. As we embrace this
Our responsibility towards our employees, customers, part-
transformative technology, we are
ners, society, and the environment relates to the develop-
also deeply committed to
ment and use of digital products based on AI. By combining
the real and the digital worlds, our business is focused on responsible AI practices.”
enabling customers and other stakeholders to achieve positive Peter Körte
sustainability impacts. The development and implementation
of AI has the potential to take our ability to address sustain- Siemens’ approach to responsible AI
ability challenges to a new level. Therefore, we prioritize the As we combine the real with the digital world, it is important
development and use of a focused responsible AI approach to address ethical challenges head-on. Therefore, we set
as we embrace new technologies and foster positive ethical standards and responsible business conduct in the
advancements as we navigate the complexities of the industrial digital world by integrating responsible AI into our business
world for a sustainable future. processes and portfolio. In this year’s focus on Generative AI,
Siemens is pursuing a holistic approach by identifying the
Responsible AI as management priority opportunities and risks in all phases of our business activities,
Siemens has long been involved in AI and recognizes the while working on aligning Siemens Generative AI with our
growing importance of Generative AI across various industries. Responsible AI Principles. These Principles also address legal
We have been integrating AI into our company strategy since requirements, like the EU AI Act, international standards and
the 1970s. Our Central Research department began exploring best practices, and the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines
AI over 50 years ago. Today, Siemens employs about 1,500 AI and Ethical Principles. Our Responsible AI Principles are:
experts worldwide and its IP-portfolio comprises 3,300 active
AI patent families. In response, the Siemens Managing Board
has initiated a thorough evaluation of existing processes to
determine their suitability for establishing a Generative AI
governance.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 41
3.1 Compliance and ethics
→ Shape sustainable development: Increase our positive With the intent of minimizing risks and amplifying the benefits
economic, societal, and environmental impact and thus of AI, the Responsible AI Principles are accompanied by
contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Siemens cybersecurity approach to AI. CYBERSECURITY AND
Goals. DATA PRIVACY
→ Promote comprehensive data governance and
p rivacy: Protect the rights of Siemens’ partners and Guardrails for our workforce and provision of
individuals by fostering the proper handling, (quality) central Generative AI platform solutions
control, and accountability of their data. To implement the Responsible AI Principles in our workforce,
→ Promote accountability and liability: Make policies we established the Siemens Generative AI Guardrails. These
and processes clear and accessible in order to guide stake- Guardrails break down the Responsible AI Principles into
holders to take responsibility. actionable guidelines for the compliant, responsible, and
→ Endorse transparency and explainable AI: Create secure use of Generative AI by our Siemens workforce, and
awareness, trust, and acceptance by explaining the ratio- they accompany our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines
nale of AI solutions. and Ethical Principles as applied to using Generative AI.
→ Safeguard human oversight: The design of AI systems
should always convey the objectives clearly defined by Recognizing the importance of equipping our workforce
humans, and AI designs should incorporate mechanisms with the necessary knowledge and skills, we also offer tai-
that enable effective human control and decision-making. lored trainings focused on (Generative) AI. By providing
→ Safeguard system security and safety: Apply honest, comprehensive training, we empower our employees to
credible, holistic rules and concepts as standards for make informed decisions and uphold our Responsible AI
security and safety. Principles, which fosters a culture of responsible AI adoption.
→ Foster accuracy and robustness: Design and develop
AI systems in such way that they achieve an appropriate To facilitate compliance with Responsible AI Principles, we
level of accuracy, reliability, and robustness. have provided our workforce and developer teams with
→ Foster inclusiveness and shared benefit: Ensure access to central internal Generative AI platform solutions
diversity, fairness, and inclusion by co-creating value for controlled by Siemens. By centralizing parts of our AI infra-
stakeholders in a multidisciplinary approach. structure, we ensure consistency, reliability, safety, and
→ Foster ethical use: Promote the ethical use of AI tech- security in the use of Generative AI across our organization.
nologies by developing and deploying AI in a manner that
aligns with the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines and
Siemens Ethical Principles.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 42
3.1 Compliance and ethics
Responsible AI in our Generative AI Product Siemens Responsible Generative AI Requirements
Portfolio: Siemens Industrial Copilots We are currently evaluating our Industrial Copilots in order
AI and Generative AI are gaining momentum across industries. to align them with the Siemens Responsible Generative AI
With our constantly evolving implementation of Generative Requirements. This is part of our ongoing effort to holistically
AI-powered Industrial Copilots across the entire value chain, integrate our Responsible AI Principles and controls into our
we aim to harness this potential to enhance collaboration product and solutions development, procurement, and risk
between humans and machines and accelerate development management processes.
and innovation processes. Our commitment to our Responsible
AI Principles is a core aspect of this endeavor.
To uphold the applicable Responsible AI Principles, we have
identified specific guidelines and requirements that are rele- Reliability &
Cybersecurity
vant to our product and solution portfolio. These principles Robustness
have been incorporated into the Siemens Responsible
Generative AI Requirements, which serves as a product- and
solution- focused process-agnostic framework for our Gener-
Trans­ Legal
Siemens
ative AI journey. parency Compliance
Responsible
Generative AI
Requirements
Human
Privacy
Oversight
Responsibility
Internal audit on trustworthy AI
Recognizing the importance of responsible AI practices,
Siemens not only developed its Generative AI governance
activities in 2024; the company also mandated and con-
ducted an audit on Trustworthy AI. The audit focused on (i)
assessing the trustworthiness of Siemens’ AI use cases and
(ii) evaluating the governance for AI at Siemens. It covered
customer-facing Generative AI solutions and the use of AI in
select human resources applications and processes.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 43
3.2 Cybersecurity and data privacy
3.2
Cybersecurity and data privacy
– Leading role in cybersecurity Siemens, AI is not only a tool for innovation, it is also a key
– Global expertise and governance structures component in enhancing cybersecurity measures to protect
against such threats. Therefore, cybersecurity is one of
Siemens’ key strategic priorities.
We believe that data protection is an integral part of respon-
sible business conduct. Cybersecurity and data privacy are Siemens takes a holistic approach to addressing cybersecurity
key success factors for Siemens and for digitalization in for the best interest of our customers. This is essential to the
general. While data privacy practices cover personal data comprehensive protection of both industry and society from
from a legal perspective, cybersecurity focuses on protecting internal and external cyber attacks.
products, solutions, and services as well as information
technology (IT) and operational technology (OT). Our primary Many Siemens’ products, solutions, and services contain a
objective is to maintain strong data protection and a high significant amount of software and IT-related components
level of cybersecurity for the company and all our stakeholders. and are often used in the context of critical infrastructures –
which means that they can be more exposed to cyberthreats.
Regulatory- and customer-specific security requirements are
Cybersecurity
increasing, and Siemens needs to address them.
Management approach Our cybersecurity governance and policies
The Cybersecurity Board (CSB), chaired by the Global Chief
Cybersecurity is rapidly growing in importance Cybersecurity Officer, is responsible for the implementation
Digital systems have become indispensable in many sectors and coordination of cybersecurity throughout Siemens. The
of the economy: for instance, in hospitals, factories, smart member of the Siemens Managing Board responsible for
buildings, e-mobility, connected mobility, and power grids. cybersecurity is part of the CSB, as are the Chief Cybersecurity
Wherever sensitive data are stored, potential security threats Officers of each of Siemens’ businesses.
are never far away. As a result, cybersecurity is one of today’s
most relevant issues, not just for companies but for society Given the importance of cybersecurity for the senior man-
as a whole. Its relevance is expected to increase, with cyber- agement, the Global Chief Cybersecurity Officer reports
security becoming crucial for helping businesses safeguard directly to the responsible member of the Managing Board –
critical infrastructures, protect sensitive information, and quarterly to the entire Managing Board and annually to the
ensure business continuity. Supervisory Board.
As one of Siemens’ strategic goals, the digital transformation The CSB provides a collaborative platform for advancing
will only succeed if Siemens can be certain that connected strategic initiatives that address security issues and establish
systems and the data contained within them will remain cybersecurity requirements and recommendations through-
secure. Emerging and disruptive technologies like AI are out Siemens and its business units. In addition, a collaboration
crucial for innovation at Siemens as they drive advances and agreement enables the Head of Cybersecurity at Siemens
new solutions. However, these technologies can also be Healthineers to participate in the CSB.
exploited by cyber attackers for malicious purposes. At
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 44
3.2 Cybersecurity and data privacy
Having recognized early on that cybersecurity is an integral Actions and results
part of the digital revolution, Siemens has built a cybersecurity The Corporate Cybersecurity department and the Cybersecurity
organization both at the corporate level and in the businesses departments in our businesses manage the following issues
and countries. All rules and regulations governing informa- and activities:
tion security and product security are documented and
detailed in the Cybersecurity Policy Framework. The frame- → Developing and implementing proactive cybersecurity
work outlines the roles and responsibilities and the rules and strategies adapted to their business
practices that offer a guide for how Siemens and its business → Proactive and reactive measures for product and solution
units will protect information and business processes. security and for safeguarding information technology and
operational technology
The Information Security Policies define the mandatory → Risk management framework as a part of the Enterprise
requirements and rules for information security. The policies Risk Management system with clearly defined roles
serve as the framework for establishing and managing infor- → Monitoring and reporting on the status and progress of
mation security at Siemens. The requirements are based on cybersecurity measures and checks
the domains defined in Annex A of the international stan- → Cybersecurity-readiness and second-line-of-defense2
dard ISO/IEC 27001. Siemens’ cybersecurity governance has → Developing global mandatory and voluntary cybersecurity
been ISO 27001certified according to the new standard awareness measures and trainings in order to continuously
ISO 27001:2022 since November 2023. improve our cybersecurity posture
Our commitment to cybersecurity is further reinforced by Cybersecurity Supplier Risk Management is an integral part
Siemens’ participation in founding the “Charter of Trust”1 of the Information Risk Management and Supply Chain
initiative to protect data and promote cybersecurity in a Management. We have established an end-to-end process
trustworthy digital world. starting with supplier selection, supplier assessment and
qualification, contracting, and risk management and treat-
In the fast-changing field of AI, our Cybersecurity team, as ment over the entire lifetime of the supplier relationship.
part of the taskforce of AI experts, has developed a robust The collaboration among stakeholders is organized in a
and holistic approach for governing and utilizing Generative global workstream structure. We share our experiences in
AI in a compliant, responsible, and secure manner. Our the Charter of Trust initiative and utilize the concepts of the
approach strives to ensure the security posture of our systems Charter of Trust to improve and scale our activities.
and to protect us from potential risks and threats. RESPONSIBLE
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Siemens is one of the industry leaders in cybersecurity. Our
cybersecurity performance is highly regarded, as evidenced
Targets by our sustainability ratings and rankings. For instance, the
Our DEGREE sustainability framework addresses the topic of Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) has ranked Siemens as
cybersecurity under “E” for Ethics. We are proactively working a leading company in cybersecurity relative to our peers.
toward safeguarding and promoting cybersecurity at Siemens.
To achieve this, Siemens started its Zero Trust initiative to
verify and authorize access to applications, sites, and products.
Zero Trust is an IT architecture concept and holistic cyber-
security approach that uses real-time signals. We have a single
guiding principle: Never trust, always verify. In addition,
Siemens employees need to complete a web-based training
on cybersecurity on an annual basis.
2 https://www.siemens.com/global/en/company/digital-transformation/cybersecurity/
1 https://www.charteroftrust.com/ governance.html
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 45
3.2 Cybersecurity and data privacy
Siemens products, solutions, and services Due to the growing demand for cybersecurity experts, we
Siemens is implementing a company-wide Product and launched the CyberMinds Academy in 2022. This is an inter-
Solution Security (PSS) initiative. The objectives are to for- national one-year program that combines learning modules
mulate PSS recommendations and binding requirements and with professional experience designed to develop young
to apply and continuously improve them in all businesses. talents into cybersecurity specialists. In fiscal 2023, 12 trainees
participated in the CyberMinds Academy and eight were
The PSS initiative is managed via the PSS Maturity model, a hired at the end of the program. This year we have 14 partici-
proprietary, standards-based model. It shows the extent to pants attending the Academy.
which the established business and design processes are
being expanded and constantly improved in terms of their Cybersecurity insurance and risk analysis
security activities and requirements. This includes estab- To protect the company and reduce the potential financial
lished areas of cybersecurity as well as emerging ones like impact of cyber incidents, we have explored risk transfer
(Generative) AI. Evaluations are performed annually at the options in detail. Following an international call for insurance
organizational level, the results are discussed with each bids, in fiscal 2021 the insurable cyber risks were transferred
unit’s management team, and corresponding improvement to a group of insurers. The coverage emphasizes losses
programs are initiated. caused by incidents like breaches of information security and
data privacy within Siemens or by third parties. The scope
To further strengthen Siemens’ cybersecurity business, our and limits of the risk transfer to the insurance market are
businesses offer selected high-maturity security services to reviewed annually.
external customers in collaboration with the corporate
Cybersecurity department. Siemens’ Cybersecurity department has acted to mitigate
risks even more. For instance:
Continuing education and young talent
development → As industrial environments become increasingly digi-
In fiscal 2024, 95% of our employees successfully completed talized, the share of software in use is growing signifi-
the annual mandatory cybersecurity awareness training.3 In cantly as is the number of associated vulnerabilities. To
addition, they had the opportunity to participate in numerous mitigate these risks, Siemens is automating the collection
voluntary Cybersecurity Awareness Initiatives, including and distribution of information about vulnerabilities with
Cyber Police, Ninjio, and the Cybersecurity GenAI Awareness the goal of offering end-to-end security for our customers.
Series. These efforts include our collaboration with the Common
Security Advisory Framework (CSAF) 2.0 from the OASIS
We offer the Driver’s License training to a specific target Consortium.
group of approximately 8,000 employees who are trained to → Since 2022, Siemens has been working intensively to
apply all of Siemens’ IT/OT security guidelines. encrypt the most important data of the post-quantum
era. As part of this effort, the previous crypto algorithms
All our people have access to continuously updated training had been completely replaced with new methods. Because
courses and learning opportunities on several cybersecurity- it is our expectation that crypto algorithms will need to be
related topics. Our trainings are accessible on the Siemens updated much more frequently in the future, the project
global learning platform. also addresses the encryption lifecycle in the form of an
expiration date for the classification of documents.
3 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 46
3.2 Cybersecurity and data privacy
→ Our Zero Trust initiative has been extended to fiscal 2030. The ProductCERT team addresses security issues that affect
The objective is to check every internal and external con- Siemens products and solutions. It is the central point of
nection between IT/OT devices and products in real time contact for reports of security gaps in Siemens products. As
and only permit trustworthy communications. a key partner of the Siemens business units, the ProductCERT
team supports the entire process – from identification to
Proactive approach to handling threats and resolution of vulnerabilities – and provides crucial informa-
vulnerabilities, reactive approach to incidents tion to customers. Updated Siemens Security Advisories are
Siemens CERT4 and Siemens ProductCERT are dedicated published on a monthly basis to ensure our level of transpar-
teams of experienced security experts who provide an imme- ency. With the CSAF format, we are among the leading
diate response to potential security threats and incidents industrial manufacturers of the automated distribution of
affecting Siemens’ products, solutions, services, or infra- vulnerability information.
structure.
In addition, our Vilocify Vulnerability Services5 continually
Siemens CERT secures our internal infrastructure, continu- search for information about vulnerabilities in software and
ously monitors cyberthreats, and evaluates their potential hardware components used in Siemens’ products and infra-
impact on the company. When security incidents occur, our structures. AI approaches are currently piloted to optimize
experts analyze the causes and initiate countermeasures to operational processes, for instance, component name map-
minimize harmful impacts, and the appropriate stakeholder ping. In a final step, product security has to be guaranteed
groups (and the authorities, if required) are informed. CERT by means of verification tests. To this end, we have devel-
also takes proactive steps to support a consistently high level oped the Siemens Extensible Security Testing Application
of protection by addressing potential vulnerabilities before (SiESTA6), which enables the dedicated identification of
any damage occurs. vulnerabilities in infrastructures, products, and solutions.
AI serves a crucial function in Siemens’ cybersecurity endeav-
Data privacy
ors. The Siemens AI-based implementation dynamically
identifies security threats by detecting anomalies in our
network and systems. This action taken to identify security Management approach
breaches helps mitigate potential harm.
Protection of personal data in the era of
To keep pace with the increasing number of cybersecurity digitalization
attacks, AI will boost the effectiveness of our cybersecurity Siemens believes that protecting the personal data of our
procedures by, automating day-to-day tasks, for instance: stakeholders is our ethical responsibility. As digitalization
and new technologies like AI advance, data protection
→ AI supports Security Analysts to make decisions faster and becomes increasingly important for our stakeholders and for
with more context Siemens’ success. That is why processing personal data in
→ AI focuses Security Analysts’ attention on the most crucial compliance with applicable data protection laws, including
part of their job and manages the rest of the process the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), is of utmost
→ An AI platform has been introduced to enable all cyber- importance to Siemens.
security teams to develop AI and deploy it for their AI use
cases
→ AI helps us better understand the data we own, including
applicational logs
5 https://www.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cybersecurity.html
4 Computer Emergency Response Team. 6 https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cybersecurity/siesta.html
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 47
3.2 Cybersecurity and data privacy
Our data privacy governance and policies Actions and results
Siemens has established a global Data Privacy organization
that follows Siemens’ business structure, with data privacy Siemens’ data privacy management system
responsibility residing with each business unit and country. To put our data privacy measures into action throughout the
Overall responsibility lies with the Chief Data Privacy Officer Group, Siemens has made them an integral part of our com-
who reports directly to the CEO of Siemens AG on an annual pliance system. Our data privacy management system was
and ad hoc basis. The Chief Data Privacy Officer also issues established to ensure that all our business activities comply
the internal Siemens Data Privacy Policies. Our Corporate with data privacy requirements and the applicable laws. The
data privacy team manages and oversees regulations, policies, system specifies policies, procedures, and controls required
and standards for data privacy in conjunction with Data Privacy by the GDPR, including data subject rights, a privacy incident
Managers in the business units and countries. process, mandatory trainings, audits, and keeping a record
of processing activities.
Our internal Compliance Policy requires every Siemens
employee to collect and process personal data confidentially Transparency and rights of data subjects
and to use them only for legitimate and predetermined pur- Our websites, digital products, and solutions include data
poses and in a transparent manner. This requirement is also privacy policy statements that inform users about processing
reflected in our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), which steps and data subject rights. When we process personal
contain a section on data privacy that requires all of our data on behalf of customers, we do so under contractual
people to comply with the data protection requirements of regulations that govern how the data is handled, including
the laws and regulations within the legal systems where they the transfer of customer data to third parties.
are operating – as well as with Siemens’ policies. In addition,
the Siemens Compliance Handbook contains requirements We want our people to be committed to data protection
for processing personal data, for documentation, and for and regular training.
reporting incidents. Siemens provides regular training to its employees on han-
dling personal data that is tailored to specific functions and
Transfers of personal data within the Group are covered by target groups. For instance, we developed a web-based data
binding internal data protection regulations: the Siemens protection training program. This program includes an
Binding Corporate Rules on Data Protection (BCR). With the “Essentials” level that is mandatory for all of our people
BCR, Siemens Group companies around the world have an involved in processing personal data as part of their job. In
obligation to process personal data from data subjects in the addition, we created specialized “Nuggets” that cater to
European Union in accordance with European data protec- specific fields and target groups.
tion standards, even when the recipient of the personal data
is located outside the European Economic Area (EEA). To further enhance awareness of data privacy, we put the
topics “data privacy and AI” at the center of our global com-
Targets munications on International Data Privacy Day in January 2024.
Our DEGREE sustainability framework prioritizes the careful
handling of data under “E” for Ethics. Our overarching goal is
a zero-tolerance approach to breaches of applicable laws and
our own internal guidelines. We are proactively working
toward achieving this goal by implementing our data privacy Data privacy management system to
management system. ensure compliance with data protection
requirements in all business processes
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 48
3.2 Cybersecurity and data privacy
Data protection in our products and solutions (privacy Controls
by design) At Siemens, we prioritize adherence to data protection
Siemens is committed to ensuring compliance with applicable requirements and continuously strive to maintain the high-
data protection regulations for our products and solutions. est standards of privacy. Therefore, Siemens implements
We prioritize the principles of privacy by design, which regular controls across all data protection measures. We
encompass legal compliance, transparency, informational conduct risk-based data protection audits encompassing our
self-determination, data minimization, and robust data processing activities, products, and services. In line with our
security throughout the development of our products and commitment to regularly evaluate our approach, a data
services. Privacy by design is seamlessly integrated into our privacy audit with a focus on human resource data and tools
product development processes. was included as part of our Global Audit Plan in 2024.
In fiscal 2024, we continued to improve our privacy by Treatment of data protection violations
design efforts by making the privacy by design toolkit a Siemens understands the significance of promptly and effec-
mandatory milestone in the global Siemens Product Lifecycle tively addressing any potential data protection violation in
Management (PLM) process. The privacy by design toolkit order to immediately stop and remedy the breach. For this
facilitates the integration of data privacy right from the initial purpose, Siemens developed a comprehensive global Data
stage of product development. To strengthen our focus on Privacy Incident Process that utilizes centralized reporting
privacy by design, we introduced an AI developer question- channels. This process aims to promptly notify all relevant
naire. This questionnaire helps assess the specific risks to internal and external stakeholders, including the affected
data privacy that may arise from the use of AI. individuals and regulatory authorities.
Data protection at our suppliers and partners
Data protection requirements are consistently observed and
implemented within the Group and by our external suppliers
and partners. Suppliers and partners undergo a preliminary
data protection audit and are required by contract to adhere
to data protection standards. Due to the increased use of AI
in IT solutions, Siemens amended the preliminary data pro-
tection assessment of suppliers and partners by adding an AI
questionnaire.
Documentation
Siemens documents the purpose, risk, and security standards
applied to all the Group’s processing activities in a central
database: the Register of Processing Activities. This register
allows us to evaluate whether data protection law permits a
given processing activity and to document compliance with
the applicable laws. In addition to the mandatory Register of
Processing Activities, Siemens implemented a contract man-
agement module for internal Data Processing Agreements
with other Siemens affiliates. This module enables us to
assess and manage data protection requirements at the
country level to ensure that local regulations are considered
in every application rollout.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 49
3.3 Human rights
3.3
Human rights
– Commitment to respect human rights in accordance concerning human rights, including the German Supply
with international standards and applicable law Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG) for which Legal and Compli-
– Continuous assessment of actual and potential ance is the overarching coordination body. In this role, the
adverse impacts on people and environment Siemens Human Rights Officer assumes responsibility for
throughout our value chain supporting and ensuring the implementation of Siemens’
– Regular dialogs with human rights­focused external responsibility to respect human rights and compliance with
business coalitions related regulation such as the LkSG.
Siemens has introduced an overarching governance struc-
Management approach ture for the management of Human Rights. Governance
We are unreservedly committed to respecting and safeguard- ownership for designing and implementing adequate human
ing human rights in every stage of our value chain. We rights-related internal regulations and related due diligence
understand this to be a key element of acting with integrity processes resides at the level of key functions, including
as well as responsible business conduct. Legal and Compliance, Sustainability, Supply Chain Manage-
ment, People and Organization, Environmental Protection,
Siemens takes a holistic approach to respecting human Health Management, and Safety, Security, and Siemens Real
rights along the entire value chain and strives to ensure Estate. The Legal and Compliance organization is the overar-
compliance with related laws and regulations through a ching coordination body and monitors the corporate risk
robust risk management framework. We work to continu- management on human rights for Siemens’ own operations
ously assess actual and potential adverse impacts on people as well as for direct and indirect suppliers. POLICY STATEMENT
and the environment and integrate our findings in our
company’s policies, procedures, and due diligence practices. Commitment to human rights and international
Therefore, and in light of increasing human rights regula- standards
tion, our commitment to respecting human rights is an The principle of respect for human rights is firmly grounded
integral part of our management systems and is embedded in the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop-
throughout company functions and business operations ment. Siemens believes that the 17 Sustainable Develop-
globally. ment Goals (SDGs) can only be fully achieved if potentially
negative impacts within value chains are examined in detail
Management and responsibilities and effective action is taken to counter them. In these
The Siemens Managing Board and the Siemens Sustainability efforts, we are guided by international standards that help
Board (SSB) monitor Siemens’ actions in relation to human companies define their approaches to human rights and
rights and our commitment to implementing the United continuously optimize them. These standards include the
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human
These bodies review our progress and our challenges and Rights and the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation
identify opportunities for improvement. and Development) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
They highlight the importance of due diligence systems that
The Managing Board of Siemens AG has appointed the Chief proactively and comprehensively identify, assess, and mitigate
Compliance Officer as the Siemens Human Rights Officer. potential adverse human rights impacts by applying a rights
The Human Rights Officer reports to the Supervisory Board holder perspective.
and Managing Board on a regular and ad hoc basis on issues
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 50
3.3 Human rights
The Business Conduct Guidelines Committee consists of central functions, for instance Supply
Our commitment to responsible business conduct and the Chain Management, People and Organization, Environmental
respect of human rights, including compliance with applica- Protection, Health Management and Safety, Siemens Real
ble laws, is anchored in our Siemens Business Conduct Estate, and Legal and Compliance. Chaired by Legal and
Guidelines (BCGs) COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS. They set out the Compliance, it provides a regular status update to the
fundamental principles and rules that apply to our actions Human Rights Officer and the Heads of the Relevant Units.
relating to human rights in our company and with our cus-
tomers, external partners, and the public. The BCGs are In consideration of future regulatory developments and
binding for all our people worldwide. In addition, the increased stakeholder expectations, we strive to continuously
Siemens Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party improve the company’s risk management programs and
Intermediaries (Supplier Code of Conduct), focused on rules procedures across our value chain.
of conduct relating to human rights, applies to the company’s
suppliers, third-party intermediaries, and business partners. We aim to systematically identify and assess the risk of
It was updated at the beginning of fiscal 2024 and complies human rights violations at an early stage and to mitigate
with national and international legislation and reflects stake- them responsibly to the extent that they can be influenced
holder requirements. by the company.
Beyond that, Siemens has embedded its commitment to Actions and results
workers’ fundamental labor rights in the International
Framework Agreement (IFA) signed with the central works Human rights in our own workforce
council and unions in 2012. This Agreement includes the In fiscal 2024, we continued to develop and strengthen our
right to collective bargaining and freedom of association, processes in order to firmly anchor our commitment to
among others. human rights-related core working conditions in the company.
This is based on the comprehensive, global due diligence
Targets processes introduced in fiscal 2023, which – among other
Siemens follows a zero-tolerance policy toward the violation measures and actions – includes local and global risk assess-
and misconduct of human rights. Our DEGREE sustainability ments. In the area of human rights in our own workforce, we
framework consists of a number of fields of actions that focus on the following topics:
address the multifaceted issue of human rights in the areas of
G (Governance), E (Ethics), E (Employability), and E (Equity) → Prohibition of Child Labor
across the entire Siemens value chain.1 → Prohibition of Forced Labor and all Forms of Slavery
→ Non-Discrimination or Intimidation
Continuous improvement measures → Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
We view fulfilling our responsibility to human rights as a → Fair Employment, including Remuneration and Working
continuous improvement journey. In fiscal 2024, Siemens Hours
continued to modify its policies, processes, and methods to
align with regulatory requirements like the LkSG and also Siemens does not tolerate any kind of intimidation, sexual
ensures fulfilment of the reporting requirements under the harassment, or any other form of personal attack on individ-
LkSG, including disclosure of identified risks. Furthermore, uals or groups. In addition, the principles of equal opportunity
we have established a cross-functional Committee with the and equal treatment apply without restriction. We foster
aim to ensure governance oversight, facilitate alignment, diversity, equal opportunity, and inclusion in the interest of
collaboration, consistent implementation, and execution of creating an open and welcoming work environment.
regulatory requirements (for instance, LkSG/SCDDA) and to DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION
align on the need to perform an ad-hoc risk analyses. The
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 51
3.3 Human rights
Siemens’ human rights framework (including requirements of the LkSG)
I. Regular human rights risk review
How are the material human rights aspects and human rights
Periodic review
risks for Siemens periodically identified?
II. Transactional human rights due diligence process
Risk Identification along Risk Assessment along Risk Mitigation
the Siemens value chain the Siemens value chain and Monitoring
Grievance mechanism Operation of Complaints Channels
III. Overarching pillars
Awareness How is awareness of human rights issues ensured at Siemens?
How is Siemens’ commitment to respecting human rights embedded
Policy and circulars
in policies and circulars?
Training and competence building How are target group specific trainings developed at Siemens?
Reporting and external communications How are human rights activities and issues disclosed?
Stakeholder engagement How is open dialog with external and internal stakeholders build?
Furthermore, we encourage our people to provide regular Human rights in the supply chain
feedback on human rights-related topics by including Siemens’ suppliers commit to upholding the Supplier Code
respective questions in our Siemens Global Engagement of Conduct, which affirms the fundamental human rights of
Survey (SGES). Topics observed and followed-up include our suppliers’ employees.
Non-Discrimination (“At work I can be myself.”) and Fair
Employment (“My workload is appropriate,” “My work schedule The Code encompasses but is not limited to the following
allows enough flexibility to meet my personal needs.”) as human rights topics:
well as manager awareness.
→ Fair work conditions (pay, work hours, vacations)
→ Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
→ Responsibility for health and safety standards
→ Prohibition of discrimination
→ Prohibition of forced labor and child labor
→ Provision of anonymous grievance mechanisms
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 52
3.3 Human rights
Siemens takes a risk-based approach to identifying potential In fiscal 2024, we have continued to identify areas to further
risks in its supply chain. This includes Corporate Responsibility strengthen human rights due diligence in our customer-
Self-Assessments (CRSAs) by suppliers and External Sustain- related business. Company-wide guidelines require heightened
ability Audits (ESAs). When deviations from the Supplier human rights due diligence when Siemens-defined “Sustain-
Code of Conduct and violations of the human rights principles ability Areas of Concern” (environmental and social risks) are
are identified, we work with suppliers to clarify how lasting present. This applies to new business transactions as well as
corrective actions can be taken within a reasonable time- established key business partners. Based on internal and
frame. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES external data, the heightened due diligence scope takes
business partner, sector, commodity, country, and location
In the case of severe violations, we reserve the right to risks into full consideration and actively risk-assesses more
terminate the supplier relationship. MATERIAL HUMAN RIGHTS than 70 environmental and social risk indicators. New business
RISK ISSUES IN OUR VALUE CHAIN transactions with a high-risk profile undergo mandatory
sustainability risk guidance by the Sustainability department.
In addition, we published a new standard on “Contractor Where relevant, other central functions like Export Control,
Occupational Health and Safety Management” that enhances Legal and Compliance, Government Affairs, Security, and
our approach to contractor management across Siemens. Communications are also involved. For particularly complex
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT or sensitive risk topics, external human rights advice is taken
into consideration. Key Accounts undergo a regular risk
Human rights in customer-related business assessment, and depending on the individual risk profile,
Siemens is committed to continually strengthening its existing some Key Accounts are subject to a mandatory deep-dive risk
systematic, preventive, and comprehensive human rights assessment.
due diligence along its entire value chain. We conduct
downstream due diligence in our customer-related business, More than 100 Subject Matter Experts have been appointed
where we assess environmental and social risks and mitigate to support the businesses and regions in the Sustainability
them. Our approach exceeds the relevant legal requirements risk due diligence process after having received targeted
and fully aligns with international standards. We strongly onboarding and capacity-building measures. Targeted web-
believe that environmental and social issues are deeply based training has been prepared and will be made available
interrelated and therefore apply a human right centered as mandatory sales trainings in fiscal 2025.
approach also with a view to environmental topics.
The Siemens proprietary due diligence tool that is being
used for downstream due diligence (ESG Radar) has also
been further integrated into the company’s risk management
processes.
The early detection of environmental
and social risks plays a key role In fiscal 2024, we reached out to external stakeholders –
in human rights due diligence. including NGOs, academia, customers, suppliers, peers, and
investors – to collect external perspectives on the relevance
of material human rights topics. This validated the material
topics for which a heightened due diligence is being applied
in response to the defined “Sustainability Areas of Concern.”
Moving forward, we intend to deepen our overall stakeholder
engagement process.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 53
3.3 Human rights
Material human rights risks that we have identified in our Grievance mechanism and channels
value chain are summarized in the table below. Siemens offers protected channels for reporting violations of
external and internal rules to all our people and external
third parties. The reports generated by these channels are
Material human rights risk issues in our value chain forwarded to our Legal and Compliance organization and
followed up on by Legal and Compliance or respective
Human rights risk issues in own operations
› Fair employment conditions Service and Governance Units. The same channels can also
› Freedom of association and collective bargaining
be used to report human rights violations to the company.
› Discrimination
› Forced labor
COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS
› Child labor
› Health and safety
Networks and coalitions
Human rights risk issues in the supply chain We maintain a regular dialog with our peers, and we aim to
› Fair employment conditions
› Freedom of association and collective bargaining establish mutual trust and drive a more in-depth discussion
› Discrimination
on human rights. This kind of dialog focuses on discussing
› Forced labor
› Child labor challenges and solutions, addressing areas of improvement
› Health and safety
regarding responsible business conduct practices, and iden-
tifying potential areas to join forces. We firmly believe that
Human rights risk issues in downstream due diligence
› Business, sector, location specific environmental we can achieve faster, more impactful progress through
and social risks1
Collective Action compared to acting alone.
› Impacts on people, communities
(incl. indigenous peoples)
› Business partner risks (incl. joint venture partners)
› Conflict regions Siemens is a member of the Global Business Initiative on
› Occupied territories Human Rights (GBI). This initiative is one of the leading
› Infrastructure related projects
international network initiatives in the field of human rights.
1 Including in the areas of coal, oil, and gas and mining, for example. Siemens is also represented in the UN Global Compact Net-
work’s European Business and Human Rights Peer Learning
Training and skill-building Group. In Germany, Siemens is involved in econsense2
Our continuous skill-building activities are geared toward working groups in the areas of business and human rights
specific target groups. Siemens provides interactive training and human rights in the supply chain.
formats for our people, suppliers, and global and regional
salespeople and for specific functions like Sustainability, In addition to regular dialogs with peers and think tanks, we
Compliance, and Environmental Protection, Health Manage- engage with external human rights advisors to derive
ment, and Safety. For our suppliers, we delivered a tailored responsible risk mitigation pathways, training and capacity-
training based on the updated content in the Supplier Code building methods, and ways to strengthen due diligence
of Conduct. practices. In addition, we engage with investors, shareholders,
customers, journalists, rating agencies, and NGOs.
In our customer-related business, expert dialogs and regular
knowledge-sharing are conducted in the areas of environ-
mental and social risks: for instance, on the topic of doing
business in high-risk sectors.
For our own workforce, targeted global awareness measures
with a special focus on discrimination have been rolled out.
2 econsense is a forum for the sustainable development of German business.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 54
3.4 Sustainable supply chain practices
3.4
Sustainable supply chain practices
– Based on a holistic “Prevent – Detect – Respond” Our governance and policies for strategic
approach procurement
– Evaluation of suppliers based on self­assessments The core objectives of the strategic procurement processes
and on­site audits are to sustain the company’s success by making a consis-
– Focus on human rights: climate protection and tently high contribution to our earnings from purchases of
responsible sourcing of minerals materials and services, to assert high quality standards along
the entire supply chain, to identify and exploit opportunities
to create value through procurement competence, and to
Management approach ensure compliance and sustainability. Sustainability is our
Siemens procures materials and services from all over the guiding principle, and it is deeply anchored in our procure-
world. We work with approximately 67,500 suppliers in more ment processes. Our understanding of sustainability in the
than 140 countries. In fiscal 2024, Siemens purchased goods supply chain is based on our company mission to be respon-
and services valued at just over 35€ billion, the equivalent of sible, excellent, and innovative. As a Support Function in the
about half of our total revenue. Due to the varying conditions Service and Governance units, Siemens Supply Chain Man-
in these countries, ensuring strict compliance with our globally agement has the process and regulation responsibilities for
applicable sustainability requirements poses a significant our procurement principles.
challenge for our daily procurement practices.
Our mandated purchasing units take general responsibility
Our purchasing activities have impacts on our suppliers, for implementing and complying with Siemens’ procurement
local communities, and the environment in our procurement principles. Therefore, only mandated purchasing units are
markets. As such, we monitor and engage with our suppliers authorized to conclude contracts with suppliers.
to drive and support their efforts to enhance their sustain-
ability practices. Our supplier relationships give us the We have developed policies that describe our standards for
opportunity to make contributions to securing jobs and suppliers in terms of their social, environmental, and ethical
promoting adherence to both international work and envi- performance. They lay the foundation for guiding supplier
ronmental standards. Using our holistic sustainable supply selection, evaluation, and ongoing engagement.
chain management approach, we work to prevent situations
where suppliers may be tempted to compromise the well-b eing The Siemens Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party
of their workforce or violate environmental regulations. Intermediaries (Supplier Code of Conduct) is designed to
cover our sustainability requirements. Among others, it is
based on the principles outlined in the United Nations Global
Compact (UNGC) and our Business Conduct Guidelines
(BCGs), which set out the basic principles of sustainability for
Siemens purchased goods and our suppliers.
services worth €35 billion from
about 140 countries
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 55
3.4 Sustainable supply chain practices
Sustainable business practices are an integral part of our
procurement principles at Siemens. For instance, they G overnance
require the Supplier Code of Conduct to be incorporated into
Progress on DEGREE ambition #4:
all new and extended procurement contracts. Procurement
ESG-secured supply chain based on
is responsible for ensuring that suppliers accept the Supplier
supplier commitment to the Supplier
Code of Conduct and do not depart from it.
Code of Conduct
Once a year, we evaluate the Supplier Code of Conduct’s We expect our suppliers to not only contribute to the
content and decide if an update is necessary. Taking new economic success of our company but also to ensure
legal requirements into consideration, at the beginning of strict compliance with our sustainability require-
fiscal 2024 the latest update was published and requires ments, which are summarized in the Siemens Supplier
suppliers to adhere to standards on: Code of Conduct. The obligation of suppliers to
observe our Code of Conduct is an essential foundation
→ Ensuring fundamental rights of employees, including for fulfilling our governance ambitions bundled under
restricting rules for private or public security forces and a “G” in our DEGREE sustainability framework.
protected grievance mechanism for employees
→ Ensuring a health and safety management We are proud to have integrated and continuously
→ Ensuring environmental and climate protection, protec- enhanced the Siemens Supplier Code of Conduct Due
tion of natural resources, including reduction of emission Diligence into our business practices since 2007.
of air pollutants and greenhouse gases, harmful soil OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
impacts, water pollution and harmful noise emissions,
and the prohibition of unlawful taking of land, forests, Progress
and waters Suppliers committed
→ Preventing corruption and bribery
Siemens without SHS.
→ Preventing purchases of conflict minerals produced in
specific countries that yield profits for armed groups
→ Preventing money-laundering and terrorist financing
→ Ensuring export control and customs
D ecarbonization
→ Ensuring data protection
→ Compelling suppliers to comply with the principles of our Progress on DEGREE ambition #2:
Supplier Code of Conduct and check compliance in the Net Zero supply chain by 2050,
own supplier base 20% emissions reduction by 2030
Targets In fiscal 2024, supply chain emissions decreased by 2%
We expect all suppliers to commit to and follow our Supplier compared to the baseline year 2020, at 7,930 kt CO2e,
Code of Conduct. This is also reflected in our DEGREE sus- with the carbon reduction measures implemented by
tainability framework as a part of the Governance field of our suppliers reflected in this number. If the increase in
action.1 purchasing volume of approximately 26% is included,
CO2e emissions were reduced even more in relation to
The Decarbonization field of action commits us to reducing purchasing volume. OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
upstream emissions in our supply chain. As part of this
effort, Siemens has set a target to reduce CO2e emissions Progress
generated in our supply chain by 20% by 2030 compared to FY 20: –2% – 20% by 2030
8,098 kt CO2e
2020. We also aim to achieve Net Zero emissions in our – 100% by 2050
supply chain by 2050.1 Siemens without SHS.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 56
3.4 Sustainable supply chain practices
Actions and results We centralize sustainability-related data about our suppliers
on the SCM Sustainability Platform, which enables us to
Sustainable procurement follows clear criteria collect information from diverse internal and external
At Siemens, sustainable procurement is supported by a sources. This includes data on carbon reduction initiatives,
holistic Prevent – Detect – Respond approach with the aim of our sustainability self-assessments, on-site audit results, and
effectively mitigating risks. risks associated with conflict minerals. All employees in
Siemens’ purchasing departments can access this integrated
Our objective is to raise supplier awareness of the impor- tool.
tance of integrating our values and meeting sustainability
requirements. Siemens also provides web-based trainings on Information is evaluated in the platform using a point system
sustainability and human rights in the supply chain for all and is presented graphically. This uniform assessment
our suppliers. approach enables sustainability to serve as a consistent
evaluation factor throughout Siemens. It supports and com-
The supplier management process at Siemens incorporates plements local purchasing decisions with supplier sustain-
strict criteria for supplier selection and qualification. When ability information on, for instance, the suppliers’ audit
engaging with new suppliers, we categorize and if necessary results or its carbon footprint which is made transparent by
proactively address potential sustainability risks based on our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program.
these criteria. This may apply to suppliers exhibiting the
following risk characteristics: Evaluation of suppliers based on self-
assessments and on-site audits as a control
→ Location in high-risk countries mechanism
→ Products subject to the requirements for the responsible We check the implementation of our Supplier Code of
sourcing of minerals Conduct requirements with different assessments – desk-top
→ Products and services with large carbon footprints to on-site:
To identify these risk characteristics, we categorize our → Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments (CRSA)
suppliers as follows: → External Sustainability Audits (ESA)
→ Responsible Minerals Sourcing (RMS)
→ Purchased material and service fields: We classify suppliers → Carbon Web Assessment (tool “supplier+s” used by
based on the specific types of materials and services they external provider ctrl+s)
provide. This allows us to tailor our measures to individual
suppliers: for instance, incorporating specific contract Corporate Responsibility Self­Assessments
clauses, requesting proof of compliance, or flagging them CRSAs are an integral part of our supplier qualification pro-
for on-site audits. cess. They are subject to regular reviews and updates to align
→ Country risk levels: Suppliers are assigned to risk levels them with evolving standards and regulations. As part of this
based on country-specific sustainability indicators in process, potential suppliers undergo a mandatory qualification
areas like legal compliance, corruption and bribery, procedure, while existing suppliers are re-assessed every
human rights in the workplace, and child labor. three years.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 57
3.4 Sustainable supply chain practices
The number of completed CRSAs increased by about 35% External Sustainability Audits
from 5,096 in fiscal 2023 to 6,878, in fiscal 2024. The number From our perspective, ESAs are the most effective means of
of agreed-on improvement measures also increased in fiscal evaluating our suppliers’ sustainability performance. These
2024 to 8,406 compared to the 5,493 reported in fiscal audits are conducted by our external audit service provider
2023. As we updated the Code of Conduct at the beginning and serve as a control mechanism for suppliers identified as
of fiscal 2024, we added several questions in the CRSA high-risk.
reflecting the increased Code of Conduct requirements. This
was the main reason that led to the described increase of
findings and corresponding measures. External Sustainability Audits (ESA)
Fiscal year
(Number) 2024 2023
Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments (CRSA)¹
Europe, C.I.S.,¹ Africa, Middle East 103 97
Fiscal year Americas 59 51
(Number) 2024 2023 Asia, Australia 268 333
Europe, C.I.S.,² Africa, Middle East 1,574 1,122 Total³ 430 481
Americas 982 767
Asia, Australia 4,322 3,207 Fiscal year
Total 6,878 5,096 Agreed upon improvement2 2024 2023
Legal Compliance/prohibition of corruption
and bribery 917 1,308
Agreed upon improvement³ 2024 2023
Respect for the basic human rights of
Legal Compliance/prohibition of corruption
employees 2,989 3,977
and bribery 1,990 1,698
Prohibition of child labor 63 106
Respect for the basic human rights of
employees 1,811 1,194 Health and safety of employees 3,071 3,511
Prohibition of child labor 115 168 Environmental Protection 222 285
Health and safety of employees 1,293 1,103 Supply Chain 226 334
Environmental Protection 2,657 1,116 Total 7,488 9,521
Supply Chain 540 214
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.
Total 8,406 5,493 2 Improvement measures agreed on with suppliers are based on actual deviations from
the Supplier Code of Conduct, structural improvements in management systems, or a
lack of specific processes and guidelines implemented by the supplier.
1 CRSAs completed mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing
3 Includes audits conducted by third parties at our suppliers sites based on the same
volume of > €50,000 per year. Questionnaires that were initiated, completed, and
standards, which are accepted by Siemens. Findings of these third-party audits are
concluded in the reporting period.
not reported in the figures.
2 Commonwealth of Independent States.
3 Improvement measures agreed on with suppliers relate either to actual deviations
from the Supplier Code of Conduct, structural improvements in management
systems, or a lack of specific processes and guidelines implemented by the supplier.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 58
3.4 Sustainable supply chain practices
The number of External Sustainability Audits decreased Sustainability topics with a specific need for
compared to fiscal 2024 by about 11% to 430 audits due to action
the increased national/international law requirements, e.g., Two focus topics play an important role in our sustainable
German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act, upcoming EU- supply chain practices, given their strong connection to
legislation, we are facing. This resulted in a tense situation other sustainability initiatives at Siemens. These include the
on the global market regarding the availability of social responsible sourcing of minerals and reducing CO2e emissions
auditor capacities. in our supply chain.
Included are 25 audits verified by our audit service provider Responsible minerals sourcing
that were conducted on behalf of third parties at companies Siemens is working hard to prevent the use of minerals from
that also have supplier relationships with Siemens. These audit areas of conflict and other high-risk areas in the supply chain
reports fully comply with Siemens’ requirements and were that are covered by the risk definition set out in Annex 2 of
provided to us with the approval of the audited companies. the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply
Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk
We may also repeat audits or conduct follow-up audits Areas. To support the responsible sourcing of minerals, we
through our external audit service provider. Our responsible developed the Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy, which
purchasing departments at Siemens can also agree on a is integrated into our purchasing process. This policy sets a
series of improvement measures with suppliers. In fiscal uniform standard for supply chain management across the
2024, improvement measures were agreed on to address a company. Our approach aligns with the risk-based require-
variety of potential social impacts. These impacts include ments of the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance.
human rights and the health and safety of employees as well
as environmental impacts like a lack of certification and To determine the use, sources, and origins of these minerals
failure to reduce CO2e emissions. in our supply chains, we investigate the smelting plants
involved. Siemens is a member of the Responsible Minerals
During this process, we remain committed to our supplier Initiative (RMI), an organization of more than 500 member
partnerships, and we work to help them improve. However, companies that provide auditing programs for smelting. We
if problems persist, or the supplier demonstrates a lack of use the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) pub-
willingness to take the necessary corrective actions, we lished by the RMI to survey our roughly 2,200 relevant sup-
remove them from our supplier list. pliers and elicit the information we need about smelters in
our supply chain that are associated with the production of
Suppliers can also be blocked in local systems around the tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG). We share our find-
world via our IT-based Global Master Data Management ings on identified smelters with our RMI partners. The initia-
process for suppliers. tive then reviews the smelters’ certification. In this process,
Siemens supports the smelters as they move toward the final
audit and certification stage. Individual results are commu-
nicated on the RMI website
WWW.RESPONSIBLEMINERALSINITIATIVE.ORG
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 59
3.4 Sustainable supply chain practices
Siemens extends its risk assessment system to evaluate 5,356 suppliers – who represent 50% of our Scope 3
minerals beyond the 3TG grouping using the risk definitions upstream (tier 1) footprint – have provided us with primary
provided by the European Commission for “armed conflict,” data by participating part in our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers
“areas witnessing weak or non-existent governance and program. Based on the responses on the new “supplier+s”
security,” and “[areas with] widespread and systematic viola- platform, since 2023 we received and calculated, there was
tions of international law, including human rights abuses.” an average reduction of 9% from the previously calculated
Cobalt and mica are two minerals that have been included in emissions for these suppliers, equivalent to a decrease of
Siemens’ due diligence process. This inclusion follows the 548,000 metric tons of CO2e. This indicates that our suppliers
RMI’s development of an auditing standard and reporting have been more supportive in reducing our carbon footprint
specifications – the Extended Minerals Reporting Template in the supply chain compared to the previous year’s reduction
(EMRT), designed specifically for cobalt and mica – in of 464,000 metric tons of CO2e. This effort helped reduce
addition to the existing specifications for 3TG minerals. Our our Siemens Scope 3 supply chain footprint compared to our
special focus regarding the cobalt supplier selection is on baseline year 2020 by 2.1% and compared to the previous
battery suppliers. More information and the text of year 2023 by 0.8%.1
our Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy can be found at
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/RESPONSIBLEMINERALS
Our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program
In our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program, we collaborate
with an external partner to analyze the economic data and
model the carbon footprint of each of our suppliers. To
facilitate this process, we utilize a web-based tool called
supplier+s that highlights the main sources of suppliers’
CO2e emissions and provides guidance on how to reduce
them. Once suppliers have completed the learning phase,
they provide us with their primary data through the tool.
supplier+s is based on the following methodology:
→ Suppliers are categorized into product or service categories
and country of origin and are then assigned an industry
average for CO2e emissions based on the calculation
model developed by our external partner.
→ We ask our suppliers to provide information via supplier+s
about their implemented CO2e reduction measures and
their overall CO2e management. Based on their responses,
we calculate the resulting emissions reduction and the
remaining carbon footprint of the supplier.
Detailed information on supplier+s is provided at
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/CARBON­SUPPLIERS
1 Siemens without SHS
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 60
Pages 61 – 89
Environment
Conservation of nature
and resources
Decarbonization Resource efficiency
support the 1.5°C target to fight global warming achieve circularity and dematerialization
Our key ambitions1 Our key ambitions1
→ Net Zero emissions across our value chain by 2050 → Robust Eco Design for 100% of relevant hardware,
→ 90% emissions reduction for own operations by 2030 software, and service portfolio by 20303
→ 30% emissions reduction for Scope 3 by 2030 → Natural resource decoupling through increased pur-
chase of secondary materials for metals and resins4
Within our DEGREE sustainability framework1 we also → Circularity through waste-to-landfill reduction by
commit to: 50% by 2025 and toward zero landfill waste by 2030
→ 55% emissions reduction for own operations by 2025
→ 20% emissions reduction for supply chain by 2030 Additional highlights
→ Measures implemented as a drive to protect local
Additional highlights biodiversity
→ Part of the EP100, EV100, and RE100 initiative2 → Accomplished energy reduction as part of our
→ Portfolio to support customers in climate protection energy efficiency ambition
→ Disclosure of Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy- → Advanced implementation of water strategy to
aligned revenues, capital expenditures, and operat- assess local water-related risks
ing expenditures → Siemens on track to achieve the 50% reduction of
waste to landfill by fiscal 2025 ambition
1 Siemens without SHS.
2 Improving energy productivity (EP), use of electric vehicles (EV), → Robust Eco Design (RED) advanced to our hardware,
and use of renewable energy (RE).
3 Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis, based on an adjusted software, and service portfolio
portfolio scope.
4 Product specifications for the use of secondary plastics are in development.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 61
Holistic environmental protection
Holistic environmental protection
Management approach for implementing these regulations and maintaining effective
Siemens operates globally with locations worldwide and control measures.
activities across a wide range of markets. With our global
reach, we aim to minimize our adverse impacts and maxi- Our internal sustainability network includes environmental
mize our positive contributions to the natural environment officers at our sites and experts in businesses specialized in
in the three dimensions: responsible product development, product-related environmental protection. The Environmen-
clean supply chain, and efficient own operations. We apply tal Protection department is developing programs to support
these dimensions across our value chain: from the sourcing Siemens’ businesses and countries in their efforts to, for
of raw materials in our supply chain to the management of instance, increase material recycling of our waste, assess
products throughout their lifecycle in our own operations. water risks and biodiversity impacts and promote resource
efficiency. We also support to reduce greenhouse gas
Green Deals emissions in our own operations. Details on governance
The significance of environmental protection and natural and policies on climate protection can be found in chapter
conservation is continuously increasing. In a rapidly expanding CLIMATE ACTION.
global economy characterized by urbanization and population
growth, Siemens actively supports various global green The implementation of EHS regulations and programs is
initiatives. These initiatives, including the European Green managed by the operational managers in our local units
Deal, aim at driving the transition toward a decarbonized worldwide. Their efforts are supported by our EHS, Sustain-
circular economy while restoring biodiversity and cutting ability, and Siemens Real Estate (SRE) officers.
pollution.
Siemens has established expert panels to ensure the integra-
Siemens welcomes the Circular Economy Action Plan (CEAP) tion of environmental considerations in our decision-making.
as part of the European Green Deal, which among other The Global Board EHS consists of EHS managers who release
things introduced new product priorities in the Ecodesign for environmental protection regulations and programs and
Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR) in July 2024. This provide advice to the Chief People and Sustainability Officer
regulation defines parameters for product environmental in consultation with the Siemens Sustainability Board. Addi-
performances with the aim of fostering circular business tionally, the Head of the EHS Governance department
approaches. directly advises the Chief People and Sustainability Officer.
Our governance and policies on environmental Mandated by the Global Board EHS, Siemens’ Environmental
protection Council evaluates the environmental risks, opportunities,
Siemens’ Chief People and Sustainability Officer, the mem- and trends relevant to Siemens’ Businesses based on uniform
ber of the Managing Board with Environmental, Health, and criteria and reports their findings to Siemens Enterprise Risk
Safety (EHS) responsibility, pursuits to ensure that we operate Management. The council is composed of environmental
in compliance with our EHS regulations. The EHS Governance experts from our business units and countries and experts in
department supports this by providing oversight and guid- corporate governance, environmental protection, supply
ance. Our EHS Principles, defined within our EHS Policy chain, sustainability, finance, technology, real estate, and
framework, provide internal binding regulations for this insurance.
purpose. The heads of organizational units are responsible
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 62
Holistic environmental protection
Siemens governs pertinent ecological aspects through our Siemens’ environmental targets and ambitions are embed-
Environmental Protection Standards. These standards ensure ded in our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens environmental program,
compliance with our EHS Policy framework and enable us to the DEGREE sustainability framework, and other environ-
oversee and improve environmental management at our mentally sustainable initiatives. The respective targets are
sites and to involve our suppliers, service providers, and detailed in the Environmental chapters that follow.
contracting partners through the Siemens Group Code of
Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries. With Actions and results
these policies and activities, we extend environmental Environmental management standards and
protection beyond our own business operations. Our envi- systems
ronmental policies also include a commitment to continually Our environmental management is based on the standards
mitigate the adverse environmental impact of our products, ISO 14001 for environmental management systems and
systems, solutions, and services. WEBSITE ON ENVIRONMENTAL 50001 for energy-intensive business units. Additionally, we
PROTECTION adhere to the IEC 62430 norm for the environmentally com-
patible design of products, systems, solutions, and services.
Evaluating sustainability aspects is integral to our due dili-
gence guidance. This means considering environmental Our mandatory EHS Principles aim to ensure the implemen-
protection in decisions about corporate mergers and acqui- tation of these norms, for instance, stating that all Siemens’
sitions. sites are required to have a certifiable environmental man-
agement system in accordance with ISO 14001. Sites must
Our environmental policies require our sites to avoid harmful also operate in compliance with existing local environmental
activities on local biodiversity, conduct water risk analyses, regulations and our internal EHS regulations. Management
and implement water protection measures. These factors are review is conducted in our sites with environmental manage-
particularly important in vulnerable areas. The policies also ment systems at least once per year to assess and monitor
include mandatory regulations for managing and reducing environmental protection. Supported by EHS experts, Corpo-
CO e emissions and waste, especially landfill waste. rate EHS or Corporate Finance can conduct internal audits to
2
verify the system’s effectiveness.
Lastly, we drive environmental awareness with our Business
Conduct Guidelines and Supplier Code of Conduct, which As a result, our sites that are required to report on environ-
include environmental protection requirements. SUSTAIN­ mental obligations have a certifiable environmental man-
ABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES, COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS agement system in place. A total of 185 sites, of which 182
have been audited by external auditors, have environmental
Targets management systems certified according to the ISO 14001
We strive to go beyond legal requirements by managing the standard. This certification requires, among other things,
environmental impact of our business activities throughout that all employees at these sites whose work impacts the
the value chain. We are also aiming to increase our align- environment receive training in personnel- and location-spe-
ment with economic, ecological, and social requirements. cific environmental protection topics.
This helps us increase our customers’ competitiveness and
supports the environmental compatibility of our business. In Training on environmental protection
collaboration with our business partners, we plan to steadily We are continuously working to increase and improve our
reduce the environmental impact of our relevant hardware, people’s knowledge and awareness of environmental protec-
software, and service portfolio. We aim to achieve this by tion. Siemens implements mandatory awareness trainings
enforcing environmentally compatible design requirements on environmental topics for all employees covered in the
like repair, reuse, recycle, and refurbish, thereby reducing Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines. Legal and Compliance
our own energy, material, and supply consumption and also monitors the participation through the Compliance Man-
minimizing emissions. agement Reporting, tracking the course completion rates.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 63
Holistic environmental protection
Feedback mechanisms help to evaluate the effectiveness of Our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program
these trainings, aiming at fostering – among others – a culture Our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program addresses environ-
of environmental responsibility. mental factors specific to our locations and our relevant
hardware, software, and service portfolio and our production.
We also empower our people to drive impactful environmental It also defines targets for improving our environmental
initiatives. Our Leading in Sustainability trainings aim at management: for instance, by encouraging a circular economy
fostering personal growth and positioning employees as and dematerializing our business processes.
leaders in sustainability efforts. Our Circular Design trainings
are designed to trigger insights on resource efficiency and The program has three components. At the center of the
the impact of a circular economy on our business models Responsible Product Development program component is
and principles. our Robust Eco Design approach. The program introduces
methods and rules for increasing product resource efficiency
Our information campaigns on World Environment Day and through dematerialization along the entire value chain. In
Earth Overshoot Day aim to raise awareness of environmental addition, it emphasizes minimizing environmental impacts
protection in a global context. As part of the “Employee by integrating lifecycle assessments and communicating
Appreciation” campaign, we recognize employees who have their environmental performance through environmental
made exceptional contributions to environmental conserva- product declarations. It also focuses on identifying potential
tion, and we share their portraits and success stories on our measures to, for instance, optimize product energy efficiency
Siemens World internal information platform. and extend the product’s lifespan. The second component of
the program, Clean Supply Chain, aims to increase the
We recognize that our own operations, supply chains, and percentage of secondary materials we use and to reduce
portfolio interact in ways that can have adverse effects on regulated substances by 2030. The third component,
biodiversity. In response, we have developed a harmonized Efficient Own Operations, aims to enhance waste manage-
site level approach to identify biodiversity impacts. This also ment and energy efficiency at our sites.
includes improved communication materials, such as our
internal whitepaper, aiming to showcase exemplary practices DEGREE, Eco Efficiency @ Siemens, and our
aligned to the EU Biodiversity Strategy. environmental initiatives equip Siemens with
targeted instruments to guide our objectives to
the protection of the environment
Eco Efficiency @ Siemens
Responsible Product Clean Supply Chain Efficient Own Operations
Development
Our relevant hardware, software and service A clean supply chain is central to decoupling At the heart of our environmental approach
portfolio are the core of our business. natural resource use. That is why we are lies our proficiency in effectively managing
Applying an Ecodesign approach to our proactively sourcing more secondary mate- our production sites and offices, with
portfolio positions us with innovative and rials and taking action to replace regulated emphasis on enhancing waste management
eco-efficient offerings to our customers. substances. practices and using clean energy sources.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 64
4.1 Climate action
4.1
Climate action
– Our pledge: With a science­based net­zero target products’ lifecycles and supply chains. In buildings, we offer
validated by the SBTi, we play our part in limiting energy efficiency and decarbonization solutions like smart
the global temperature rise to 1.5° C buildings and smart energy management for a reduced carbon
– Our SBTi targets: footprint. Our rail systems offer low-carbon mobility and
– Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions increased energy efficiency.
90% by fiscal 2030 from a fiscal 2019 base year
– Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions 30% With global temperatures rising, we are committed to help-
by fiscal 2030 from a fiscal 2019 base year ing mitigate climate change. At the same time, Siemens is
– Net­Zero GHG emissions across the value chain evaluating climate-related risks and opportunities and
by fiscal 2050 potential measures for adapting to climate change in order
– Our path: Continuous reduction of GHG emissions to ensure business continuity and functioning supply chains.
from business operations, collaborations with
suppliers, and a portfolio that helps our customers Our climate-protection governance and policies
decarbonize To contribute to climate protection, the Environmental Pro-
– Achieved our interim DEGREE ambition to reduce tection department supports our businesses in their efforts
emissions in own operations by 55% by fiscal to reduce CO2e emissions in their operations. The Supply
2025 one year in advance Chain Management department helps our business units
promote decarbonization in the supply chain at our suppliers
and through our material purchases. Our business units are
Management approach responsible for reducing their respective emissions. The
At Siemens, we recognize the urgency of climate protection. Sustainability department is responsible for the consolidated
It is our top priority to contribute to the objectives set out in Siemens GHG emissions reporting and our Decarbonization
the Paris Agreement, which includes the goal of limiting Program for our own operations and defines the necessary
global warming to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels. As a management and GHG emissions reporting approaches.
global technology company, we acknowledge that our
activities along the value chain – including procurement, For our approach and governance for managing climate-
product design, production, and the use of our products related risks and opportunities, please see our reporting on
and services – generate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE­RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD).
(hereafter “CO2e emissions”).
We have pledged to aim to make an important contribution
We support our customers with their efforts to decarbonize to the decarbonization of the global economy. We aim to
their infrastructure and operations, drive energy efficiency, reach this goal with a focused strategy and risk manage-
and future-proof entire industries. We do this with an offering ment, and by acting in accordance with the recommenda-
that is strategically focused on digitalization, electrification, tions of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
and automation. For instance, our energy-efficient products Disclosures (TCFD). Our commitment to the initiatives
and solutions support the transition from fossil fuels to RE100 (COMPLETE CONVERSION TO RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY), EV100
renewable energy sources, and our electrification solutions (CONVERSION OF THE VEHICLE FLEET TO ELECTRIC VEHICLES), and EP100
enable renewable grid integration and the electrification of (NET ZERO EMISSION BUILDINGS) further supports us in our efforts
heat and hydrogen. Across industries, we offer energy opti- to achieve our decarbonization targets.
mization and carbon footprint management throughout our
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 65
4.1 Climate action
Targets
Our commitment to climate protection is also reflected in D ecarbonization
Decarbonization in our DEGREE sustainability framework.
Progress on DEGREE ambition #1:
Reduce emissions in own operations
Our 1.5°C Science-Based Net-Zero Target
by 55% by 2025
By upgrading our existing science-based target commitment
Reduce emissions in own operations by
to comply with the stricter SBTi Net-Zero Standard, we have
90% by 2030 and compensate residual
demonstrated our commitment to aligning our business
emissions
activities with the 1.5°C decarbonization pathway, consistent
with the Paris Climate Agreement’s 1.5°C target. Compared to fiscal 2023, we reduced our Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emissions in fiscal 2024 by 75 thousand
Siemens has pledged to reduce absolute emissions from its metric tons of CO2e or 20%. We reduced our Scope 1
own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 90% and from its value and Scope 2 emissions by a total of 60% since fiscal
chain (Scope 3) by 30% by fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2019 and have reached our fiscal 2025 ambition one
2019. year in advance. This reduction is primarily due to the
rigorous implementation of a number of measures
We also commit to Net-Zero by fiscal 2050, reducing abso- and initiatives, which are briefly described in this
lute emissions across our value chain by 90% by fiscal 2050 chapter. OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
compared to fiscal 2019, with any residual emissions perma-
nently compensated. Progress
–60% – 55% by 2025
FY 19:
Decarbonization targets for our own operations 737 kt CO2e –60% – 90% by 2030
Our fiscal 2030 reduction pledge
As part of our DEGREE sustainability framework (without Emission reduction as part of the
Siemens Healthineers), we set an ambition for all Siemens decarbonization program
(in 1,000 metric tons of CO2e for Siemens without SHS)
production facilities and buildings worldwide and our vehicle
fleet (own operation Scope 1 and 2) to reduce the CO2e
Scope 1 and 2 emissions in Siemens’ business operations for
Siemens without Siemens Healthineers (SHS) by 90% by
to
2019
fiscal 2030, compared to fiscal 2019 (DEGREE ambition #1).
737
– 60%
to
To achieve this ambition, Siemens pledged in fiscal 2022 to 2019
– 90%
invest an additional €650 million in its own decarbonization 402 370
295
efforts by fiscal 2030. Any residual emissions will then be
compensated with high-quality carbon credits that meet 75
established standards.
–75
To drive additional transparency on our journey to fiscal FY FY FY FY FY
2019 2022 2023 2024 2030
2030, we set an ambitious interim reduction target for our
Emissions Carbon credits
business operations at Siemens without SHS of 55% by fiscal
2025 compared to fiscal 2019. We are proud to have reached Siemens without SHS.
our ambition one year in advance.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 66
4.1 Climate action
By joining the RE100 initiative in fiscal 2021, we reinforced Actions and results
our commitment to a transition to 100% renewable electricity
by fiscal 2030 at the latest. As part of our commitment to Transparency on greenhouse gas emissions
EV100, we are striving to completely convert our motor We report our greenhouse gas emissions based on the
vehicle fleet to electric vehicles by fiscal 2030. Our EP100 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol corporate standard. Direct
pledge strengthens our commitment to only own or lease greenhouse gas emissions from our own operations
buildings that have no net CO2e emissions by fiscal 2030. (Scope 1) and indirect emissions from purchased electricity
and district heating (Scope 2) are calculated for all sites. We
Decarbonization targets for our upstream and also report our emissions in our upstream and downstream
downstream value chain value chain (relevant Scope 3 categories), including emissions
Regarding Scope 3 emissions, we are focused in particular originating in our supply chains and the use of our products.
on reducing emissions in our supply chain and in the use
phase of our products.
Greenhouse gas emissions1
As part of our updated science-based targets we increased
Fiscal year
our ambition by pledging to reduce our entire absolute
(In 1,000 metric tons of CO2-equivalents) 2024 2023
Scope 3 emissions, upstream and downstream, by 30% by
Scope 1 347 387
fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2019 (previously – 15% in the
Scope 22 94 163
same timeframe).
Sum Scopes 1 and 2 441 550
Scope 3
For CO2e emissions generated in our supply chain, we set the
Purchased goods & services 8,931 9,2183
ambition for Siemens without SHS to reduce emissions by
Capital goods 408 416
20% by fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2020, and over the
Fuel- and energy-related activities 117 111
long term to achieve Net Zero emissions in the supply chain
Waste in operations 26 29
by fiscal 2050. This ambition is also part of our DEGREE
Transportation upstream 717 884
sustainability framework. More details on our decarboniza-
Business travel4 221 218
tion targets for the supply chain and DEGREE KPI can be
Employee commuting5 108 105
found in SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES.
Sum of Scope 3 upstream 10,528 10,981
Use of sold products6 397,520 469,180
Decarbonization targets in management
Investments7 8,710 8,815
compensation
Sum of Scope 3 downstream 406,230 477,995
As a key element of our management approach, the reduc-
Total Scope 3 416,758 488,976
tion of CO2e emissions in our own operations is embedded
in the Long-term Incentive (LTI) compensation component 1 Siemens including SHS.
2 We calculate our emissions from electricity consumption on the basis of the CO2e
for the Siemens senior management (without SHS). Manage- emission factors of local sites according to the market-based approach.
3 Fiscal 2023 recalculated.
ment compensation incorporates long-term performance 4 Last year adapted due to method change in calculation of Business travel emissions.
incentives based on ESG criteria and is defined under Gover- 5 Not part of supply chain emissions reduction.
6 Based on energy input approach. For transparency, we also report an additional
nance in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The assess- figure based on energy loss.
7 Methodological update in line with PCAF and emissions related to Equity Investments.
ment is based on our Siemens ESG/Sustainability index, Fiscal 2023 recalculated in line with revised methodology, hence deviates from previ-
ously reported figure.
which includes, among other goals, the reduction of CO2e
emissions.1 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION The measures we take within our business processes along
with focused actions in our supply chain and expanded value
chain are key to achieving our emissions targets.
1 For the latest Tranche, ESG criteria include CO2e emission reduction and digital
l earning hours.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 67
4.1 Climate action
Using renewable energy Reducing motor fleet emissions
Even before Siemens joined the RE100 initiative, we worked We are working to reduce the emissions from our motor
continuously to increase the share of electricity we obtain vehicle fleet, which comprises about 45,000 vehicles, and
from renewable sources. Our goal is to use 100% renewable are striving to electrify it completely by 2030 in line with our
electricity by fiscal 2030. In fiscal 2024, more than 90% of the EV100 commitment2. In fiscal 2024, these emissions totaled
electricity we purchased consisted of electricity from renew- about 196 thousand metric tons of CO2e.
able sources (without SHS: 91% and 70% already meets the
new requirements of RE100 regarding plant age < 15 years). We increased the number of battery electric vehicles (BEV)
to roughly 8,000, which equals an BEV-rate of 18%, and
By purchasing renewable electricity, we reduced absolute increased the number of charging points installed at Siemens
emissions by a total of 552 thousand metric tons CO2e in locations to around 3,700 in fiscal 2024.
fiscal 2024 compared to the average electricity mix. We
started in 2016 with the procurement of renewable electricity. For our largest country fleet in Germany, we’ve doubled the
A complete conversion to renewable electricity is not yet number of BEV to more than 3,700 and attained a BEV-order
possible due to regulatory restrictions in some countries ratio of over 80%. This major step-up is enabled by making
(purchasing of green electricity today is not possible for coun- our fleet policy even more restrictive regarding ordering
tries including Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Armenia, Bang ladesh, combustion-engine vehicles.
and Ukraine). Through our membership in RE100, we are
working toward the amendment of these regulations to Belgium is an example, where 32% of the 1,450-vehicle
make complete conversion a reality. In purchasing renewable company fleet is already consisting out of BEV, and such
electricity, we follow the RE100 Technical Criteria. vehicles accounted for 100% of all new car orders at the end
of fiscal 2024.
Siemens has also entered power purchasing agreements (PPA)
to support our supply with renewable electricity. For instance, In the Netherlands, we are also continuing our commitment
in Kalwa, India, we joined a joint venture that produces to electrification as well. Our fleet of over 990 vehicles now
renewable electricity using photovoltaic systems. In Germany, includes about 360 BEV (> 36%). The BEV-order ratio of more
Siemens receives renewable electricity from 2 PPAs. The than 72% achieved in fiscal 2024 is expected to increase
Siemens Campus in Erlangen is supplied by 21 wind turbines even more with the implementation of a BEV-only fleet policy
in the northern region of Germany, and since January 2024 we in fiscal 2025.
have purchased 39.1 GWh of electricity per year from Enovos
Energy Deutschland generated in a brand-new photovoltaic
system in Germany’s South Eifel region.
Siemens has joined the Corporate SAF (Sustainable Aviation
Fuel) program for corporate customers of Air France and
KLM and has set a monetary contribution to support this
program. By investing in the SAF program of Air France and
KLM, Siemens is taking concrete measures to reduce CO2
emissions and contributing to the ecological transformation
of air travel through the support of innovative solutions.
2 With our EV100 commitment we target to transition 100% of vehicles up to 3.5 t and
50% of vehicles between 3.5 t and 7.5 t to battery-electric vehicles, plug-in hybrid
vehicles, fuel-cell electric vehicles or extended range electric vehicles, where this is
technologically and financially feasible as defined by EV100.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 68
4.1 Climate action
Reducing building emissions Using an internal CO2e price
Regarding building emissions, we are committed to only In the UK, Brazil, and Switzerland, we currently use an internal
owning and occupying assets that are net-zero carbon in CO2e price to manage our decarbonization activities. In the
operation by fiscal 2030 as part of our EP100 pledge. We UK, we raised the price per ton of CO2e in fiscal 2024 to
plan to achieve this goal through various measures, includ- GBP75 from GBP50 to create a clear path to increasing CO2e
ing building new carbon-neutral buildings, modernizing costs. While a large portion of the proceeds is being used to
existing buildings, and leasing carbon-neutral office space fund the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles at our
wherever possible. Once we have exhausted all possible offices throughout the UK, we also encouraged our employees
measures, we plan to purchase high-quality carbon credits to to submit ideas for low carbon projects. An expert panel of
compensate for the remaining emissions. both internal and external subject matter experts allocated
the remainder of the funds to three successful projects. For
We applied the Sustainable Construction Guideline that defines the first time, we will be funding an initiative that sponsors
the criteria for the carbon-neutral operation of new buildings some of our SME suppliers on their sustainability journey
and sets maximum permissible emissions in the supply chain and will support us in tackling Scope 3 emissions. Brazil
and in construction activities. The expansion of our Sibiu continues with the shadow price methodology approach of
facility in Romania is fully electrified and carbon-neutral and US$240 per ton of CO2e, a reference price (abatement cost)
includes a 600 KWp roof-mounted photovoltaic installation. to guide decision-making during CapEx evaluation to avoid
new CO2e footprints without compensation measures. In
In fiscal 2024, we renewed the SRE3 Green Lease Guideline Switzerland, we currently levy an internal CO2e price of
for leasing carbon-neutral all-electric buildings, and we have CHF70 per ton for unavoidable business travel by air. The fee
a decarbonization strategy for markets lacking carbon- is added to the ticket price and is intended to have a steering
neutral options. For instance, Siemens’ location in Santa effect. To reduce Scope 3 emissions at their source, the
Clara, California, USA has optimized space utilization by money is used to purchase high-quality certified SAF.
relocation to a LEED Gold-certified office building that will
be carbon- neutral in operations from fiscal 2028 due to Upstream emissions
HVAC upgrades executed by the landlord. Our upstream emissions total roughly 10.5 million metric
tons of CO2e and are therefore considerably higher than the
As of fiscal 2024, we have 35 Siemens-owned locations with emissions from our own business operations. This is because
transformation projects underway, including electrification, our supply chain operations are typically more energy-
energy efficiency, and photovoltaic measures. More than intensive than our own operations – primarily because our
60 locations are prioritized for decarbonization by fiscal supply chain processes raw materials.
2030. At the production facility in Wendell, USA, electrifi-
cation, energy efficiency measures, and a 2 GWh annual A detailed description of our efforts to reduce CO2e emis-
photovoltaic and 3.3 MWh battery storage are being imple- sions in our supply chain is available in SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY
mented, which will result in nearly all carbon-free energy CHAIN PRACTICES.
being produced on-site while avoiding 804 metric tons of
CO2e emissions per year.
3 Siemens Real Estate.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 69
4.1 Climate action
CO2e emissions in the use phase of our products Use of Sold Products emissions
During the use phase of our products, the main source of
Fiscal year
CO2e emissions is electricity consumption. This means that
(in million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 2024
the key strategies for reducing emissions during the product
Siemens including Innomotics 398
use phase aim at increasing energy efficiency and promoting
Siemens excluding Innomotics 101
automation and digitalization.
Our strategic focus on digitalization, electrification, and We are using a more conservative constant emissions factor
automation allows us to support our customers in their for the anticipated product use phase. On a like-for-like basis,
efforts to decarbonize their infrastructure and operations, using the energy input approach for Use of sold products,
drive energy efficiency, and future-proof entire industries. our Scope 3 emissions decreased, mainly due to reduced
Our efficient electric motors are also an important factor in sales figures, but also due to factors like transitions to
reducing use-phase emissions. renewable energies in our users’ markets and shifts toward
lower emissions products.
Emissions produced in the use phase of our products will
continuously decrease over time due to new product gener- Our rail rolling stock portfolio is a prime example of our
ations and to the ongoing transition to renewable energies efforts to reduce emissions. It is focused on zero tailpipe-
in our users’ markets. emission vehicles in the form of electric, battery-electric,
and hydrogen trains. Additionally, our portfolio includes rail
There are different interpretations of the GHG Protocol Stan- infrastructure and rolling stock solutions that enable reduced
dard in the market used for Scope 3 category 11 Use of Sold energy consumption: for instance, due to the lightweight
Products. Of particular relevance for electrical motors, both design and optimized aerodynamics of trains as well as using
the energy input approach (emissions are calculated based technologies for optimized train steering and control like
on energy input for the overall use of the product at the (partly) automated driving.
customer) and an energy losses method (emissions are
calculated based on energy losses of that particular product) Our contribution to climate protection for our
are used within the market to disclose emissions from the customers (Customer Avoided Emissions)
use of sold products. Siemens retains the more conservative To make our portfolio’s contribution to decarbonization
energy input approach as its lead indicator for Scope 3.11 transparent, we report the amount of CO2e emissions that
Use of Sold Products. our products and solutions avoid compared to reference
solutions. Customer Avoided Emissions (CAE) represent the
The use of our products sold in fiscal 2024 will generate difference between the CO2e emissions of a Siemens offering
398 million metric tons of CO2e over the entire expected and the CO2e emissions of a baseline or reference scenario.
product use phase based on the energy input approach
(Scope 3.11 Use of Sold Products). For context, when Customer Avoided Emissions are widely reported in the
accounting for energy losses for the relevant portfolio, e.g. market; however, there is currently no universally accepted
motors, rather than the energy input, the value would amount standard for their calculation. Therefore, approaches and
to 96 million metric tons of CO2e. The most significant contrib- results are often not comparable due to different definitions
utor to our emissions footprint comes from Scope 3 Cate- and product portfolios. Siemens is actively involved in a
gory 11 Use of Sold Products. Of this, the emissions associated number of working groups and associations that are working
with the Innomotics business (predominantly motors) are the to support the standardization of calculations and reporting
largest share. Therefore, for transparency purposes, we also of customer-related CO2e emissions: for instance, we are
show the Use of Sold Products emissions, excluding our involved with the WBCSD and the EU Green Digital Coalition.
discontinued operation of Innomotics. Siemens’ Use of Sold
Product footprint is 101 million metric tons of CO2e, when
excluding Innomotics (using the Energy Input approach).
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 70
4.1 Climate action
At Siemens we have developed our own method that meets Avoided emissions at our customers
our standards for high-quality and transparent metrics. We
Fiscal Year
calculate the avoided emissions for all products and services
(in million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 2024 2023
sold and investments made by Siemens in each fiscal year
Siemens 173 2071
over the course of their entire use phase at our customers.
We aim to capture the decarbonization effect our portfolio 1 Fiscal 2023 recalculated.
has within the following three impact categories: energy
efficiency, increase in renewable energy, and electrification. Despite our efforts to increase the scope and accuracy of
These decarbonization effects can be achieved either on a calculating the decarbonization effect of our offerings, there
product level or on a system level (for end-use solutions or are still significant aspects of our portfolio that are not
intermediary solutions), in line with the WBCSD eligibility reflected in this metric, yet they provide contributions to the
criteria. transition to a low-carbon economy. These include software
and rail infrastructure solutions. However, we have chosen
In fiscal 2024, we implemented methodological adjustments to calculate CAE only in areas where a robust calculation
to our approach that resulted in an expanded portfolio that methodology can be developed. We are continuously working
allows us to calculate our CAE impact. We now also capture to make our CAE calculations as accurate as possible to
Customer Avoided Emissions for products that facilitate reflect the potential of our portfolio in a transparent way.
electrification and an increase in renewable energy – in
particular, in our Smart Infrastructure electrification and our For a detailed description of our methodology for calculating
Digital Industries automation businesses. To ensure a fair Customer Avoided Emissions, please see our REPORTING
and accurate representation of our decarbonization impact, PRINCIPLES FOR CUSTOMER AVOIDED EMISSIONS.
we do not apply the “Completeness” principle to calculations
where the data quality does not meet our standards (see Investment-related emissions
details in our ANNEX). Siemens Financial Services (SFS) supports customers and
partners around the globe to invest in renewable energy
In fiscal 2024, we helped our customers avoid 173 million sources, thereby making a positive contribution to decarbon-
metric tons of CO2e emissions (144 million metric tons of ization. As of September 30, 2024, the equity and debt
CO2e emissions without the Innomotics portfolio). The financing solutions provided by SFS fund infrastructure
Siemens technologies that make the largest contribution to projects and technologies that support projects of customers
the avoidance of CO2e emissions by our customers are fre- and partners with a total installed capacity of 36,600 MW of
quency converters, building systems, railbound passenger wind energy, 17,900 MW of solar energy, and 11,000 MW of
and freight transportation as well as electrification and other renewable energy production technologies (including
automation offerings. For consistency and comparability, we battery storage) worldwide.
have recalculated the fiscal 2023 figure in line with the
above-mentioned methodological changes for calculating SFS is committed to supporting its customers around the
Customer Avoided Emissions. Customer Avoided Emissions world on their decarbonization journey, including by financing
went down overall compared to the previous year, mainly energy infrastructure projects. Based on this commitment,
due to reduced sales figures. For parts of our portfolio, we SFS has significantly reduced new financing for fossil power
also recorded increasing Customer Avoided Emissions, for generation projects since fiscal 2019 and is aiming to further
example through progress in the expansion of renewable reduce its exposure to the fossil power generation sector
energies and electrification. going forward. Emissions related to new financings for fossil
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 71
4.1 Climate action
power generation projects that have been agreed in fiscal Shaping the climate debate and policy
2024 amount to 0.6 million metric tons of CO2e over the Siemens participates in many platforms and initiatives to
expected duration of the financing of these projects (fiscal contribute and shape the debate on climate-related issues.
2023: 3.0 million metric tons of CO2e). Any new financing For instance, as part of the UN Global Compact Peer-Learning
for fossil power generation projects will be limited to projects Group, we are sharing knowledge and lessons learned on
that support the global energy transition. In fiscal 2024, SFS various climate-related topics with other companies.
Equity Finance also invested in carbon removal companies to
support innovative solutions and technologies that actively Beyond our various measures and activities, Siemens also
remove CO2e from the atmosphere. participates in committees and associations where it advo-
cates for more changes in climate policy frameworks in order
In line with evolving financial services market practice, to support the following activities:
starting from fiscal 2024, emissions related to Scope 3 Cate-
gory 15 Investments refer to annual emissions from existing → Accelerating decarbonization in all sectors through effi-
SFS financing of fossil power generation projects following cient energy use and electrification and by increasing the
the guidance of Partnership for Carbon Accounting Finan- share of energy from renewable sources
cials (PCAF) starting from fiscal 2024. Where SFS funded → Redesigning energy markets to ensure that adequate
fossil power generation projects through equity and debt investments are made in sustainable, secure, flexible and
financing solutions in fiscal 2024, its financial contributions efficient energy systems
corresponded to about 8.5 million metric tons of CO2e for → Driving the development of local energy production from
the reporting year (fiscal 2023: 8.6 million metric tons of renewable sources, local energy markets, and sector
CO2e). For fiscal 2024, Scope 3 Category 15 Investments coupling
now also contains emissions related to Equity Investments. → Accelerating the digitalization of the energy system to
Total investments related emissions were 8.7 million metric enable the integration of renewable energies, continuous
tons of CO2e in fiscal 2024. grid optimization, and the integration of prosumers, while
guaranteeing grid stability
Carbon credits → Scaling up innovation and the manufacturing of clean
Our internal compensation policy establishes binding guide- technologies needed for the clean energy transition, in
lines for procuring and using carbon credits. The carbon order to support the pledges made in the Paris Agreement
credits are derived from projects that remove or avoid CO2e (COP 21)
emissions and must meet minimum quality criteria, includ-
ing external certification and internal quality controls. The
portfolio used for carbon credits is modelled on the approach
defined by the Oxford Offsetting Principles. Siemens’ top
priority remains physically reducing emissions. To date, we
do not use carbon credits to make compensation-related
claims in the context of our DEGREE ambitions. We also do
not deduct carbon credits from our CO2e footprint in order to
maintain transparency regarding our emissions.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 72
4.2 Conserving resources
4.2
Conserving resources
– Implement measures as a drive to protect local In addition to the greenhouse gas emissions addressed in the
b iodiversity chapter on climate protection, Siemens also collects data on
– Achieved energy reduction as part of our energy other emissions that result from our business activities and
efficiency ambition that are of great significance for environmental protection.
– Advanced implementation of water strategy to The emission of air pollutants like volatile organic com-
assess local water­related risks pounds (VOC) and ozone-depleting substances (ODS) can
– On track to achieve the 50% reduction in waste to lead to ground-level ozone and have adverse health effects,
landfill by fiscal year 25 ambition and some are potent greenhouse gases. For this reason,
Siemens pays close attention to emissions of VOC and ODS
at our environmentally relevant sites. In addition, our Envi-
Management approach ronmental Protection Standard includes a commitment to
As a company producing a diverse array of products, systems, phase out ODS.
solutions, and services, and with office and production
locations around the world, we strive to reduce and mitigate While many types of waste can be recycled or reprocessed in
the environmental impacts of our sites through site level a functioning circular economy, the production of landfill
assessments, setting targets, and implementation of waste contributes to land use and greenhouse gas emissions,
improvement measures. it influences local biodiversity and can cause health problems
for people and ecosystems. For this reason, Siemens has
The environmental and energy management systems imple- been fostering re-use, recycling, and recovery of waste. In
mented worldwide integrate targets and measures for dealing addition, Siemens can also reduce potential impacts in the
with environmental impacts and increase our energy and downstream value chain and in the upstream value chain
resource efficiency. from sourcing primary raw materials.
Energy is an important resource in production and office Water use in water-stressed areas can exacerbate water
locations, and its usage reduction is a key strategy for decar- scarcity, degrade water quality, and harm aquatic habitats
bonization. While we aim to obtain all our electricity from and biodiversity. Therefore, Siemens has been analyzing
renewable sources, we recognize that even the generation water scarcity, water pollution, climate change, and flooding
of renewable electricity, for instance, through wind turbines and precipitation patterns at our sites for several years.
or photovoltaics, can have adverse impacts on the natural
environment: for instance, they change the local landscape Lastly, biodiversity loss is comparable to the threat of climate
when in operation and they must be disposed of correctly at change, because it can disrupt the functioning of ecosystems,
the end of their lifecycle. and create far-reaching impacts on people’s health and liveli-
hoods. In order to reverse adverse biodiversity impacts,
Siemens acts locally by implementing site-driven local initia-
tives.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 73
4.2 Conserving resources
Our governance and policies for conserving
resources R esource efficiency
To mitigate these impacts, we made the responsible use of
Progress on DEGREE ambition #8:
limited resources an integral part of environmental protection
Circularity through waste-to-landfill
and nature conservation at Siemens. Information on our
reduction by 50% by 2025 and toward
holistic environmental protection governance and policies
zero landfill waste by 2030
can be found in HOLISTIC ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
Landfill waste is the type of waste with the greatest
Targets environmental impact. That’s why we want to reduce
Our commitment to conserving resources is also reflected in both our hazardous and our non-hazardous landfill
the field of action Resource efficiency in our DEGREE sustain- waste by 50% by fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2021
ability framework. and have included these ambitions in our DEGREE
sustainability framework as well as the Eco Efficiency
The component Efficient Own Operations of our Eco @ Siemens program. Compared to the base year 2021,
Efficiency @ Siemens program aims to reduce the environ- we reduced our landfill waste by 30%.
mental impact of our sites by enhancing waste management OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
and using clean energy effectively, as well as implementing
dematerialization and circular economy principles. We focus Progress
on improving our energy efficiency and reducing the envi- FY 21: 0% – 30% – 50% by 2025
ronmental impact of the waste we generate. When it comes ~ –100% by 2030
to environmentally responsible energy use, we focus on Siemens without SHS.
reducing emissions from power generation, in addition to
minimizing energy consumption itself. As part of our com-
mitment, we aim to improve our overall energy efficiency by
10% by 2030 compared to 2021.1
The global goals of the Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program
Building on the success of previous reduction initiatives, our are converted into local targets and measures implemented
ambition is to support circularity by pursuing zero waste to by our sites’ environmental and energy management systems.
landfill by 2030 and reduce by 50% by 2025. Additionally,
we want to continuously increase our material recycling rate
by 2030.1
In addition to our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program, we
actively pursue resource conservation through other initia-
tives. We have implemented initiatives to manage our envi-
ronmental impact in areas like water, air pollutants, and
biodiversity.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 74
4.2 Conserving resources
Primary energy Secondary energy
(1,000 gigajoules) (1,000 gigajoules)
Natural gas / Fuel oil, Electricity District heating
liquid petroleum gas gasoline / diesel
2,277 2,251 232 40 5,586 5,692 1,016 820
FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2023 FY 2024
Total Total
2,513 2,500 6,602 6,512
FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2023 FY 2024
Actions and results When looking at Siemens’ total energy consumption, we
differentiate between primary and secondary energy and we
Energy management and energy efficiency considered energy consumed by vacant buildings starting
For energy-intensive units, we adhere to the ISO 50001 from fiscal 2024 to account for basic operational main-
standard, which aims to ensure the effective management of tanance. In addition, the general energy consumption
energy consumption in our own operations. Currently, decline is due to energy reduction measures implemented at
43 Siemens sites have implemented energy management site level. Our primary energy consumption declined 0.5% in
systems compliant with ISO 50001. This also requires our fiscal 2024. Our consumption of natural gas and liquid
sites to conduct regular internal and external energy and petroleum gas declined 1.1% compared to the previous fiscal
carbon audits. year. To determine energy consumption by our company
vehicles, we calculated the consumption of all cars used by
To calculate energy efficiency, we analyze our energy con- employees and for services and our trucks. In fiscal 2024, the
sumption in relation to sales development. Due to reduced company fleet consumed about 2,788 thousand gigajoules,
energy usage by 16.9%1, we increased our energy efficiency which is a 4% decrease from the previous fiscal year.
by 53%1 in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2021.
Secondary energy consumption means the purchase of
electricity and district heating at our sites worldwide. Overall,
the consumption of secondary energy decreased by 1.4%
compared to the previous year. Our electricity consumption
16.9%¹
now stands at 5,692 thousand gigajoules.
energy reduction accomplished as
part of our energy efficiency ambition As a global company, Siemens is committed to increase
compared to 2021 energy efficiency. The first step to achieving this is to collect
energy consumption insights from different Siemens regions
1 Siemens without SHS. and locations. In order to obtain reliable and high-quality
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 75
4.2 Conserving resources
data, in fiscal 2024 Siemens implemented a global applica- hazardous waste, we work on increasing our material recycling
tion that provides insights into energy consumption and the rate and reducing our landfill waste. To enhance material
carbon footprint of Siemens locations. The application uti- efficiency in our production processes, we implement practices
lizes local data to create insights up to the global level. like regrinding sprue parts at plastic molding sites.
Emission of air pollutants To support resource efficiency in production, our sites track
We take a comprehensive approach to air pollution by analyzing waste data using a standard process that undergoes regular
local emissions at our various office and production facilities audits that aim to ensure accuracy and compliance. In addi-
around the world. We also pay close attention to emissions tion, we distinguish between hazardous and non-hazardous
from VOC, pollutants from combustion processes, and where waste. The treatment of hazardous and non-hazardous
they are still present, ODS at our environmentally relevant waste is further subdivided into material recycling, thermal
sites. The mandatory environmental management system recovery, thermal disposal, and landfill. Waste flows from
for our sites includes the requirement to establish targets construction or demolition work are reported separately
and measures for reducing air pollutants, and where applicable, because these waste categories are created independent of
to address and mitigate their impact. production. We then go beyond the monitoring of our own
activities to analyze the waste generated throughout our
Our Environmental Protection Standard includes a commitment upstream supply chain. Awareness workshops on waste
to phase out ODS. Siemens monitors the use of substances avoidance and improved waste separation to facilitate a
that can potentially harm the ozone layer, to ensure compliance better recycling process are examples of our site-level actions
with the international Montreal Protocol on Substances that to reduce waste to landfill.
Deplete the Ozone Layer, as well as various national laws.
The volume of non-hazardous waste generated by Siemens’
own operations declined by 3% compared to the previous
Atmospheric pollutant emissions fiscal year, whereas the volume of hazardous waste increased
Fiscal year in the same period by 1%. Construction waste increased by
(in metric tons) 2024 2023 268% in fiscal 2024, mainly driven by the construction sites
Volatile organic compounds 238 250 at our Campus in Erlangen, Berlin and Nuremberg. Compared
Ozone-depleting substances in metric tons to fiscal 2023, therefore the total waste volume increased by
of R11 equivalent 1 0.022 0.044 32% in fiscal 2024.
1 The R11 equivalent is a measure of ozone depletion potential.
To reduce construction waste is also a focus for Siemens and,
We reduced our VOC emissions by another 4.7% from the in order to support this approach, some of our locations are
previous year to 238 metric tons in fiscal 2024. Total ODS driving initiatives to accelerate the circular economy in real
emissions also decreased when comparing with the previous estate. Siemens sites with major construction activities in
year, amounting to 0.022 metric tons in fiscal 2024. Germany launched initiatives on construction waste man-
agement. One of the sites hosted the first pilot project with
We determined the quantity of nitrogen oxides in our relevant a renowned brickmaker, and it investigated how to reclaim
thermal processes with the aid of computational procedures, bricks during a deconstruction (demolition) process for reuse
assuming typical combustion conditions. For fiscal 2024, in other construction projects. More than 24,000 bricks were
this yielded a figure of 48 metric tons for our environmentally successfully salvaged during the first phase of site clearance,
relevant sites compared to 53 metric tons the year before. and they are now being reused in the construction industry.
This figure includes nitrogen oxides that are released by The knowledge acquired from the process will be applied to
burning the fuels listed under primary energy. the demolition of other buildings. In addition, another site
with major construction activities in Germany, was able to
Efficient waste management ensure that about 80% of the demolition material could be
The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type recycled; even the floor panels from the raised floors were
of waste and the method used for its disposal. To reduce returned to the manufacturer for reuse and recycling.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 76
4.2 Conserving resources
Waste to shape local water targets. The aim of Siemens’ Water
(in 1,000 metric tons) Strategy is to minimize local adverse effects of our water
consumption. It is structured in such a way that it can be
125 fully integrated into the EHS management systems.
Construction waste
208
FY 2024 Non-hazardous
Our individual sites implement their own water initiatives in
13 345 waste
Hazardous total alignment with these targets. Many sites, for instance in
waste
China and in Germany, use rainwater for sanitary facilities,
watering plants and cleaning building exteriors. Siemens
India’s sustainable water management includes measures
such as utilizing water-efficient appliances, installing rainwater
In fiscal 2024, the share of material recycling in our total harvesting systems at four major factory locations, and building
waste stream (excluding construction waste) remained at 82%. water reclamation facilities (zero liquid discharge facilities).
These measures enable us to reduce freshwater consumption
Material Recycling by, among other things, utilizing treated water for landscap-
(in %) ing and toilet flushing. In addition, Siemens operates its own
water treatment plants in some locations. The treatment
facilities in India, for instance, treats process water from
FY 2023 FY 2024 production operations so that it can be used for purposes
81 82 including irrigating the site’s green spaces.
Total Total
Share of material recycling
in total waste1
1 Excluding construction waste.
97%
Water use and risk analysis
Water is one of humanity’s most important resources. For of our sites have implemented
this reason, Siemens has been analyzing and managing a water strategy
water-related risks, including water scarcity, water pollution,
climate change, and flooding and precipitation patterns at Our water strategy provides foundational support to our
our sites for several years. We recognize our responsibility compliance with the Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria
for sustainable water use, including preparing for the for sustainable use and protection of water and marine
impacts of climate change that may affect the water balance. resources in the EU Taxonomy.
Our water risk analysis begins with an assessment of our In fiscal 2024, due to the establishment of water targets, we
environmentally relevant sites using the Aqueduct Water Risk reduced the water withdrawal from 14.26 million m3 in fiscal
Atlas from the World Resources Institute (WRI). With the aid of 2023 to water withdrawal of 12.8 million m3, of which 4.0
an internal analytical tool, Siemens assesses local-level risks million m3 was supplied by external companies; this includes
resulting from our site activities and then evaluates them in publicly and privately owned water companies. The largest
relation to regional water risks. Sites with a high risk assess- share of our water use is for cooling processes. These pro-
ment need to define targets to reduce their level of risk. In cesses leave the water’s chemical quality largely unchanged,
fiscal 2024, 97% of our sites implemented this water strategy. so that the water can be returned directly to the receiving
water body or groundwater. In fiscal 2024, our water dis-
We establish water targets at multiple sites to account for the charge was 12.0 million m3.
specific local environment and to drive effective mitigation
measures. At the corporate level, we have implemented a Water consumption is a water substream with a major envi-
defined water strategy, and have conducted risk assessments ronmental impact because the water is no longer available
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 77
4.2 Conserving resources
for the ecosystem’s use. Siemens’ water consumption is Six custom-made bat houses were strategically installed
mostly linked to evaporation and is comparably small, with around a site in France, to support enhancing of cohabitation
just 0.67 million m3 of total water consumption. Of this and naturally reducing mosquito pests. A campus in Turkey
amount, 0.24 million m3 are accounted for by water con- embraces environmental stewardship amid urban transfor-
sumption in water stress areas. mation by prioritizing drought resistant plants in its gardening
efforts. We contribute to reforestation by collaborating with
Water discharge a regional foundation to ensure environmental restoration
(in million m3) beyond campus borders. These inspiring examples are a
pioneering start. To contribute to greater biodiversity, we
2.09
Surface water have entered a strategic partnership with The Biodiversity
FY 2024 Consultancy. This partnership helped Siemens to scientifically
11.99 6.55 assess our biodiversity footprint and shape a global strategy.
Groundwater
total
3.35
3rd-party water
In fiscal 2024, The Biodiversity Consultancy supported
Siemens in the preparation of a workshop for framing a
global strategy to address our own operation’s impact and
Initiatives for greater biodiversity the development of local mitigation measures. As an out-
The aim of Siemens’ environmental management system is come, Siemens developed a harmonized site-level approach –
to preserve a diverse natural environment. Biodiversity and now defined in our Environmental Standard – to identify and
conservation are defined in our environmental policies as address biodiversity site level impacts. In addition, in 2024
environmental aspects at the company level that need to be we enhanced our biodiversity communications materials,
assessed locally. We address biodiversity globally with local including an internal white paper that showcases exemplary
site-driven initiatives. The objective is to ensure that the practices aligned with the EU Biodiversity Strategy.
business activities at our factories and offices do not reduce
species diversity beyond an unavoidable minimum. This Incidents relevant to the environment and fines
approach is part of our location planning, which also includes Siemens uses a worldwide reporting system to document
initiatives to foster biodiversity. Examples range from planting environmental incidents. In fiscal 2024, we recorded one
native vegetation, creating homes for insects, birds, mammals, significant incident resulting in a permit related fine over
reptiles, and amphibians to taking inventories of the local US$10,000. We recorded 15 minor environmental spills or
biodiversity at our sites. gas losses with low impacts. They involved spills of chemicals,
diesel, hydraulic oils, or resins and losses of coolant gases.
A Siemens location in China is situated in a green office park
with trees, perennial plants, and a variety of animals and Stakeholder involvement in conserving resources
birds. The team established community gardens to grow Stakeholder engagement is a crucial aspect of our environ-
organic vegetables, enhancing the area’s biodiversity mental protection efforts. We utilize various channels to
through crop rotation and intercropping while also yielding engage in regular stakeholder dialogs, including with local
sustainable produce. In India, sites are assessed for biodiversity communities. One of the communications channels used is
impacts. For instance, one site has about 1,500 trees aged our internal Environmental Protection Newsletter, where we
over 30 years that cover about 20% of the site. The team share updates, achievements, and upcoming initiatives related
tends to the flora and fauna and provides a sanctuary for to environmental protection. We also promote the use of best
rare bats, snakes, and a range of bird species. practices and knowledge transfers within Siemens through
curated training offers in our internal web-based training
In México, the team hosts composting workshops, giving platform in order to facilitate our efforts in this regard.
employees the opportunity to learn about sustainable waste
management practices. Taking that compost material home For more information about the methods used, environmental
establishes eco-friendly habits beyond the workplace. reporting, and environmental data collection, see REPORTING
METHODOLOGY.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 78
4.3 Product stewardship
4.3
Product stewardship
– Advancing Robust Eco Design (RED) to our relevant outcomes of the Robust Eco Design approach. We also
hardware, software, and service portfolio address these challenges through various cross business and
– Significant increase in Lifecycle Assessments functional initiatives: for instance, our Eco design learning
(LCAs) and Environmental Product Declarations programs, our sustainable products initiative, and our Sus-
(EPDs) tainability Business portfolio.
Management approach
At Siemens, we understand that design decisions made
during the development of our offerings can have effects on We focus on resource efficiency
nature and our environment. As one of the market leaders over a product’s entire lifecycle
and technology pioneer in many fields, we take a keen inter-
est in minimizing these impacts throughout the lifecycle of Our governance and policies for product
our portfolio. Ensuring the environmental compatibility of stewardship
our offerings is a key priority. The Environmental Protection department is responsible for
planning, preparing, organizing, and implementing rules
Extraction and processing of material resources (fossil fuels, and regulations for product stewardship. It aims to ensure
minerals, non-metallic minerals, and biomass) account for consistency, transparency, implementation, and compliance
over 55% of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). Biomass with regulatory frameworks within its areas of responsibility
(agricultural crops and forestry) also accounts for over 90% and reviews their effectiveness.
of the total land use related biodiversity loss and water
stress.1 These consequences can impact the composition, With our Ecodesign approach, we aim to contribute to
resilience, productivity, and carrying capacity of natural and climate protection at our customer sites and increase dema-
managed ecosystems as well as people’s well-being. Accord- terialization through our circularity approach and our digital
ing to the Circularity Gap Report 2024, only 7.2% of the portfolio elements. CLIMATE ACTION, COMPANY PROFILE
materials used worldwide in 2023 were recycled. This marks
a decline from 9.1% in 20182. We therefore aim to reduce the Fundamental Ecodesign approaches at Siemens include
environmental impact of our relevant hardware, software, increased resource efficiency and decarbonization during
and service portfolio as early as the design phase and minimize production, higher productivity and efficiency during use,
the need for raw material extraction. Our Ecodesign and product designs that support a circular economy. In
approach considers relevant environmental aspects already accordance with the international standards IEC 62430
in the product planning and design stage, because this phase Environmentally Conscious Design for Electrical and Elec-
can determine up to 80% of a product’s lifecycle environ- tronic Products, DIN EN 4555x series, ISO 14006, and
mental impact.3 The Siemens EcoTech Profiles showcase the ISO 14009, Siemens developed and applies the Robust Eco
1 IRP (2024). Global Resources Outlook 2024: Bend the trend – pathways to a liveable
planet as resource use spikes. (Global Resources Outlook | Resource Panel)
2 https://www.circularity-gap.world/2024
3 Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the
European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
A new Circular Economy Action Plan. For a cleaner and more competitive Europe
(https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:52020DC0098)
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 79
4.3 Product stewardship
Design (RED) approach. The Ecodesign Appendix, which is a
mandatory component of Siemens’ Environmental Protec- R esource efficiency
tion Standard, provides a framework for environmentally
Progress on DEGREE ambition #6:
compatible design, as well as assessing and communicating
Robust Eco Design for 100% of relevant
the environmental footprint of our offerings throughout all
hardware, software, and service portfolio
phases of the lifecycle, in anticipation of the need for guid-
by 2030
ance beyond the current reporting scope. In fiscal 2024, we
upgraded the Ecodesign Appendix with 12 specific Ecodesign The portion of our relevant hardware, software, and
criteria along the three different stages of the lifecycle service portfolio that incorporates Robust Eco Design
(sustainable materials, optimal use and value recovery) to stands at 54% compared to 41%1 in fiscal 2023. Only
address Ecodesign along the entire lifecycle of a product. when the rate of implementation reaches 100% can
These specific Ecodesign criteria are in line with legislation, it be assumed that all relevant elements of the port-
like the EU Eco Design for Sustainable Products Regulation folio have completed every phase required to be
(ESPR). With our Siemens EcoTech Profile, we highlight designated a Robust Eco Design.
portfolio elements whose criteria are outperforming their OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
predecessors, harmonized standards, or the market. The
implementation of this standard is the responsibility of the Progress
Heads of Siemens’ organizational units and is an integral part FY 21: 16%1 54% 100% by 2030
of the company’s annual environmental review according to
Siemens without SHS.
ISO 14001.
1 Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis, based on an adjusted
portfolio scope.
Targets
Our Ecodesign approach is also embedded in the field of
action Resource efficiency in our DEGREE sustainability
framework. The main objective is to introduce methods and revenue coverage of the relevant portfolio elements of
rules for circularity and dematerialization along the entire Siemens without SHS increased to 69% compared to 62% in
value chain. fiscal 2023. In addition, our ambition is to increase the
number of LCAs and EPDs available. As a result of our accel-
Applying Robust Eco Design across the relevant erated commitment, the rate of RED implementation reaches
hardware, software and service portfolio 54% in fiscal 2024, compared to 41% in fiscal 20234.
Our aim has been to intensify the use of Lifecycle Assess-
ments and Environmental Product Declarations, which will As a result, we are continuously expanding our database for
allow us to identify environmentally compatible design monitoring and communicating the environmental perfor-
alternatives, that are supported by the specific Ecodesign mance of our relevant hardware, software, and service
criteria that can be integrated into our product specifica- portfolio.
tions. Our ambition is to apply Robust Eco Design to our
relevant hardware, software, and service portfolio by 20304. Expanding our use of secondary materials
Starting in 2021, we began implementing Robust Eco Design We want to proportionately increase our procurement of
primarily across our hardware products, establishing a strong secondary metals and resins by 2030. To achieve this, we are
foundation. In 2024, we expanded our efforts to include concentrating on suppliers of raw materials and semifinished
software and services, strengthening our commitment to products that can be directly influenced by our purchasing
reducing the footprint of our offerings. With this step the specifications.
4 Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis, based on an adjusted portfolio
scope.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 80
4.3 Product stewardship
Actions and results
R esource efficiency Our program module Eco Efficiency @ Siemens has defined
special environmental protection priorities in the categories
Results on DEGREE ambition #7:
Responsible Product Development – of which Robust Eco
Natural resource decoupling through
Design is an integral part – and Clean Supply Chain.
increased purchase of secondary
materials for metals and resins
Robust Eco Design for future-fit product families
We maintain effort to use secondary materials for Robust Eco Design focuses on the systematic application of
metals and resins and implement a circular economy. Ecodesign to all lifecycle phases processes. The aim is to
In fiscal 2024, we purchased 35% of the metals – identify strategies that make a hardware, software and ser-
primarily iron, copper, and aluminum used in the vice lifecycle as environmentally compatible as possible. For
manufacture of our products – from recycled sources hardware, actions like refurbishment, reuse and proper
and remain stable in comparison to fiscal 2023. This recycling can be options, while for software, it is on the one
percentage is the weighted average of the secondary hand about the environmental impacts associated with the
material proportions of the three metals based on development, e.g. associated business travel, and on the
average regional or global values from literature other hand the energy efficiency while in use. For services,
sources. In fiscal 2024 we sourced 1% of the resins the environmental impacts often related also to business
used to make our products from recycled sources. We travel, which can be optimized or replaced by remote services.
continue to collaborate with the technical plastics For all portfolio elements, we intend to reduce materials,
recycling chains and are focused on further developing energy flows, and losses to the necessary minimum.
product specifications and material standards.
OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK RED measures
The Robust Eco Design approach is designed to identify
Results potential measures for reducing the environmental impacts
Metals 35% of our relevant hardware, software, and service portfolio in
Resins 1% order to:
Siemens without SHS. → Increase resource efficiency by reducing material inputs
or replacing physical components and functions with
digital solutions – otherwise known as dematerialization
→ Optimize energy efficiency by minimizing energy con-
Limiting declarable substances sumption during use and designing environmentally
At the same time, we want to continuously reduce declarable sound operation modes
substances in all our products. → Enhance durability and reliability by material selection or
services that help extend a hardware and software product’s
More details on the measurements used in the substitution lifespan and maintain its functionality
process for declarable substances can be found in the section → Extend the lifespan of our relevant hardware and software
“Actions and results.” through proper maintenance, repairability, and upgrad-
ability activities along with the appropriate service offerings
→ Maximize the value and benefit from our relevant hard-
ware, software, and service portfolio by implementing
efficient return logistics systems, promoting take-back
initiatives, and adopting “As-a-Service” business models.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 81
4.3 Product stewardship
RED phases → Phase 3 – Dematerialization
The Robust Eco Design approach involves three phases:
T he preceding assessments are conducted to identify
→ Phase 1 – Application perspective environmental design alternatives, the results are inter-
preted, and where feasible they are incorporated into
T he goal and scope of the requirements of our relevant environmentally optimized design specifications. The
hardware, software, and service portfolio are defined and 12 Ecodesign criteria are part of these design alternatives
are analyzed in terms of the environmental parameters and are considered in the Product Lifecycle Management
required by markets and customers. They are then catego- process – for example, secondary materials, repairability,
rized in Homogeneous Product Families based on their recyclability, upgradability, and energy efficiency – to
underlying technology and specifications, such as the support dematerialization.
function provided, type of service or software. This ensures
they will meet the needs and demands of stakeholders. Eligibility for Siemens EcoTech Profile
For details, see our ECO DESIGN WHITE PAPER5. Beginning in 2024, the Siemens EcoTech Profile is being
awarded to products that outperform their predecessors,
→ Phase 2 – Solid foundation harmonized standards, or the market in terms of their envi-
ronmental impact, based on the 12 Ecodesign criteria. For
The environmental impacts of our Homogeneous Product more information on the Siemens EcoTech Profile, see Focus
Families are quantified using LCAs based on ISO stan- in fiscal 2024.
dards. EPDs are used to communicate a portfolio’s environ-
mental impact and other environmental indicators that
measure circularity. This phase provides the basis for the
determination of environmental footprint improvement
measures. For details, see our LCA EPD BROCHURE.
Our 12 Robust Eco Design criteria
Value recovery Sustainable materials
Repairability Low carbon material
Upgradability Secondary material
Ease of disassembling/ Minimum material use
circular instructions
Packaging
Recyclability
Substances of concern
Optimal use
Energy efficiency
Durabiliy/Longevity
Updatability/Maintenance possible
5 https://assets.new.siemens.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:f7d929ad-971f-44df-ac51-
7783cc28dac7/Ecodesign-WP.pdf
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 82
4.3 Product stewardship
Implementation rate of our Robust Eco Design approach Lastly, the implementation rate KPI for Robust Eco Design is
In line with our DEGREE R (Resource Efficiency) ambition, we calculated as the ratio of the total RED-conformant revenue
consistently monitor our progress in implementing the to the total revenues of all identified Homogeneous Product
Siemens Robust Eco Design (RED) approach across the Families. The total revenue of all identified Homogeneous
Homogeneous Product Families in our business units, with- Product Families includes third-party revenues from our
out Siemens Healthineers (SHS). hardware, software, and service portfolio. Revenues from
solutions, obsolete products, products with negligible reve-
To track our progress, we classify our relevant hardware, nue, and products that are spin-offs are not considered when
software, and service portfolio into Homogeneous Product calculating the Robust Eco Design KPI.
Families (HPF) based on similar technical and environmental
characteristics. The process is as follows: This comprehensive approach ensures that our Robust Eco
Design implementation is thorough, consistent, and aligned
→ We select representative products to derive scaling func- with our DEGREE ambition.
tions. These products should represent the average
product structure. They should also cover most of the The Robust Eco Design approach provides a systematic meth-
products sold within this HPF. odology for exploring effective Ecodesign measures identi-
→ This involves calculating the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) fied in one product family and applying them to other
for at least one product that represents the average prod- product families. This process is facilitated by scheduled
uct structure and cover most of the products, ensuring community meetings that serve as a forum for practitioners
comparable data availability and sources. specializing in product-related environmental protection to
→ The selection of scaling parameters within a Homogeneous exchange best practices and insights. We also maintain an
Product Family (HPF) involves determining a function of internal knowledge resource that includes Ecodesign case
physical characteristics that reflects the environmental studies; it is a dynamic knowledge base that promotes cross-
impacts of the product. These parameters are specific to pollination of ideas and strategies across our business units.
each product and can vary across different impact categories
and lifecycle phases. They should cover all environmental Focus in fiscal 2024
impact categories, be easily accessible, and include both In fiscal 2024 we strengthened our Environmental Protection
geometric and functional properties. Standard “Specifications for Environmentally Compatible
Products, Systems, Solutions, and Services ” and its Robust
Each Homogeneous Product Family is evaluated independent Eco Design Appendix with a focus on 12 Robust Eco Design
of the three perspectives previously explained: the application criteria. Those criteria cover the entire lifecycle, are aligned
perspective, the solid foundation of the product, and the with existing and future regulatory requirements and global
level of dematerialization achieved. The state of maturity of policies, and will guide our dematerialization process. This is
each Homogeneous Product Family is compared to pre- supported by the digital twin, a Siemens solution that simu-
defined respective maturity criteria. This comparison forms lates the entire lifecycle of an asset, from its design and
the basis for a formalized scoring system, where a fully met production to operation, servicing, and maintenance – also
criterion scores 100%, a partially met criterion scores 25%, on Sustainability. LCAs and EPDs are created by our auto-
and an unmet criterion scores 0%. The scorings are applied mated and systematic solution for facilitating transparency
independently for each criterion. The mean of all scores is in the environmental profile of our products.
the RED implementation rate for a Homogeneous Product
Family. The Robust Eco Design conformant revenue share for
a Homogeneous Product Family is derived by multiplying its
revenue with the Robust Eco Design implementation rate.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 83
4.3 Product stewardship
In 2024, Siemens launched the Siemens EcoTech Profile. It is Clean Supply Chain: Using secondary materials
awarded to products that outperform their predecessors, to decouple natural resource use
harmonized standards, or the market in terms of their envi- Building on the Robust Eco Design phase dematerialization,
ronmental impact. Its basis are the 12 Eco Design criteria, the Clean Supply Chain category in the Eco Efficiency @
which are categorized in terms of the three different stages Siemens program module maps our path to decoupling
of the lifecycle (sustainable materials, optimal use, and value natural resource use from our economic growth.
recovery). To prioritize each dimension and to provide a
holistic view along the entire product lifecycle, all Siemens In fiscal 2024, Siemens increased the portfolio of sustainable
EcoTech products have to outperform in each of the three resins in its internal material databases to 110 resins and
dimensions to qualify for the profile. switched several resins to a more sustainable solution with
a lower product carbon footprint and higher secondary
In fiscal 2024, Siemens EcoTech Profiles were awarded, material share.
covering more than 25,000 Siemens products. This helps
communicate the sustainability capabilities of our portfolio One of our newly established Ecodesign criteria is related to
and how our products can support our customers in meeting secondary materials. It aims to increase the share of secondary
their own environmental ambitions. material, including bio-based material when it comes from
waste.
To be designated a Siemens EcoTech Profile, a product needs
to meet mandatory prerequisites. It must have earned an Risk-aware handling of declarable substances
Environmental Product Declaration (EPD), comply with sub- Another essential aspect of product stewardship is the
stance regulations, and be produced in a facility powered by responsible handling of substances, mixtures, and materials
100% renewable electricity. All of these products also have that are potentially hazardous to the health of people and/or
to fulfil at least one criterion in each of three lifecycle stages. the environment over the full lifecycle. Given market dynamics
and various legal regulations that address these potentially
The profile is designed to provide customers with transpar- harmful substances, we have been reconciling the definition
ent information on each outperformance we claim, as well of Substances of Concern. We strive to proactively substitute
as detailed information on how the product fulfils the Eco these substances beyond the legal requirements – including
Design criteria, for instance, with the Partial Carbon Foot- the Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and
print, Recycler Guide, and repairability. This level of perfor- Electronic Equipment (RoHS), the Regulation on the Registra-
mance transparency is consistent across all our Siemens tion, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals
EcoTech Profiles. (REACH), and the Regulation on Persistent Organic Pollutants
(POP) – while also considering EU Taxonomy criteria, espe-
By going beyond regulatory requirements and being trans- cially Do Not Significant Harm (DNSH) Appendix C along with
parent about the measures we take to reduce the environ- the technical requirements of the products. For this purpose,
mental footprint of our products, we empower our customers we continuously optimize the relevant management using
to make more informed choices. internal processes and tool landscapes, and we engage with
our suppliers to identify and qualify substitution options.
Also in this context, we work to increase the utilization of the
digital industrial substance database BOMcheck6 by our
suppliers and are constantly optimizing our interfaces and
automated workflows. We fully comply with the declaration
requirements of international legislation and IEC 62474.
6 BOMcheck is an external database that enables Substance Declaration via a web-based
system designed to reduce the risk of regulatory non-compliance. The Declarations
are based on industry standards IEC62474 and IPC1752A/B for substance/material
declarations that are relevant and applicable to the Siemens product portfolio.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 84
4.3 Product stewardship
By systematically applying our approaches to environmentally Since fiscal 2022, the two-part Circular Design web-based
compatible hardware, software and service design and learning module has been available to all Siemens employees.
closely collaborating with our business partners, we intend In addition, we developed the Leading in Sustainability
to comprehensively support the replacement of declarable training as part of the Top Management Leadership Program,
substances and decouple economic development from a learning program for our leaders that includes a focus on
resource consumption. the circular economy. We maintain internal stakeholder
engagement and raise awareness with measures like
Training and stakeholder involvement in product environmental protection newsletters and environmental
stewardship information campaigns, like our Ecodesign Whitepaper.7
We actively involve our customers in our Robust Eco Design
process. In the first phase of this process, the goal and scope We are also engaged in a number of related technical stan-
of requirements for Homogeneous Product Families are dardization committees and working groups, like the IEC
defined, and HPFs are analyzed in terms of the environmental TC111, the CENELEC TC111X , and ISO TC323, to support the
parameters required by markets and customers. Our business development of standards, rules, and guidelines for environ-
units also reach out to customers to learn their specific mentally compatible product design and the product envi-
requirements for Ecodesign measures and to get feedback ronmental footprint.
on measures already implemented. Regular workshops with
selected partners, distributors and customers are conducted
to poll their opinions on required or implemented Ecodesign
measures.
7 https://assets.new.siemens.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:f7d929ad-971f-44df-ac51-
7783cc28dac7/Ecodesign-WP.pdf
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 85
4.4 EU Taxonomy
4.4
EU Taxonomy
The EU Taxonomy results in this section were determined Based on a comprehensive assessment of the Siemens busi-
based on Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178 ness portfolio, Taxonomy-eligible revenue accounted for
in conjunction with the International Financial Reporting 68.1% of total revenue and Taxonomy-aligned revenue for
Standards applicable for the Consolidated Financial State- 25.4%. This translated into €51.7 billion in Taxonomy- eligible
ments. In order to enhance the usefulness and comparability revenue and thereof €19.3 billion in -aligned revenue.
of this information, Siemens assesses Taxonomy-alignment
for all relevant environmental objectives one year ahead of Taxonomy-eligible means, that 68.1% of Siemens’ business
the regulatory requirement. The expansion of the reporting potentially qualifies as environmentally sustainable as
scope regarding environmental objectives and the associated defined by the EU Taxonomy regulation. The Taxonomy-
increase of economic activities, including amended economic eligible business is primarily associated with the EU’s envi-
activities for the climate objectives, resulted in sharply ronmental objectives Climate Change Mitigation (CCM) and
increased Taxonomy-eligibility and underlines the relevance Transition to a Circular Economy (CE). Siemens business
of the Siemens product portfolio and solutions for a sustain- activities outside of the scope of EU Taxonomy are mainly
able transformation. within Siemens Healthineers, partly because currently the
Healthcare sector is only partially covered by the EU Taxonomy.
EU Taxonomy results for the reporting year (Siemens Group) Taxonomy-aligned implies, that 25.4% of our business activ-
ities are already environmentally sustainable and contribute
Taxonomy-eligible Taxonomy-aligned
substantially to Climate Change Mitigation or Transition to a
Fiscal year Fiscal year Circular Economy.
2024 2023 2024 2023
EU-Taxonomy Revenue 68.1% 20.3% 25.4% 16.5% Taxonomy-aligned economic activities were primarily driven
EU-Taxonomy Capital by the activities (i) Manufacture of low-carbon technologies
Expenditures (CapEx) 72.2% 34.5% 18.2% 12.2% for transport (CCM 3.3), (ii) rail transportation infrastructure
EU-Taxonomy Operating
(CCM 6.14), both associated with the business portfolio of
Expenditures (OpEx) 74.0% 12.4% 32.3% 8.2%
Mobility, and (iii) Provision of IT/OT data-driven solutions (CE
4.1) related to Digital Industries. Furthermore, (iv) Services
The revenue figure shows the ratio of revenue from Taxonomy- for energy-efficient building technologies (CCM 7.5) as part
eligible and/or -aligned economic activities to the total revenue of our Smart Infrastructure business contributed to align-
in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the reporting ment in revenue in the reporting year.
year. Revenue results primarily from contracts with customers,
to a minor extent also from leasing activities (for further details
see Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The
Innomotics business, reported under Discontinuing Opera-
tions, was consequently not part of the revenue baseline and
associated Taxonomy assessments.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 86
4.4 EU Taxonomy
A major share of eligible, non-aligned revenue was tied to The Taxonomy-aligned CapEx included €176 million related
the new economic activities (i) Manufacture, installation, to a CapEx plan for building projects to be finalized by fiscal
and servicing of high medium and low voltage electrical 2028, summing up to a planned total volume of €1.5 billion
equipment for electrical transmission and distribution that (capitalizable and non-capitalizable costs). The buildings are
result in or enable a substantial contribution to climate designed to minimize energy use and carbon emissions
change mitigation (CCM 3.20) and (ii) Manufacture of elec- (CCM 7.7). The total volume of this CapEx plan increased by
trical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2). €0.1 billion compared to the prior fiscal year due to addition
of new building projects. When finalizing or starting building
The difference between alignment and eligibility was mainly projects that are part of the CapEx plan, the planned total
due to criteria related to substances of concern, which go volume reported in the respective period is adjusted accord-
beyond existing national and EU regulations. On the one ingly.
hand, the criteria for substantial contribution for the activity
Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2) Acquisition and ownership of buildings (CCM 7.7) repre-
require proactive substitution for many of these substances, sented the largest portion in overall CapEx eligibility. The
which largely depends on the availability of (economic) difference between Taxonomy-eligible CapEx and Taxonomy-
alternatives as well as lead times in product life cycles to be aligned CapEx for this economic activity was impacted by (i)
feasible. On the other hand, the Do No Significant Harm only partial availability of information on energy perfor-
(DNSH) criteria related to the use and presence of sub- mance certificates for our global portfolio and (ii) energy
stances, part of Appendix C pollution prevention and control, certificates below the required threshold defined in the
require transparency regarding the use of substances of Substantial Contribution criteria for the energy efficiency of
concern especially in non-European countries, which is not buildings.
completely available yet, as well as additional documentation
related to the proactive substitution of substances or justifica- Furthermore, eligibility in CapEx benefited from the new
tions for their ongoing use. economic activities (i) Manufacture of electrical and elec-
tronic equipment (CE 1.2) and (ii) Manufacture, installation,
The CapEx figure shows the ratio of CapEx from Taxonomy- and servicing of high, medium and low voltage electrical
eligible and/or aligned economic activities to the total CapEx, equipment for electrical transmission and distribution that
reflecting additions (including additions from business result in or enable a substantial contribution to climate
combinations) to other intangible assets and property, plant change mitigation (CCM 3.20). As outlined above under the
and equipment in accordance with Note 13 to the Consolidated revenue figure, alignment here was still negligible due to
Financial Statements, as well as additions of assets for Inno- criteria related to substances of concern.
motics. In the reporting year, 72.2% (€2.8 billion) of Siemens’
CapEx was Taxonomy-eligible, and 18.2% (€0.7 billion) was The OpEx figure shows the ratio of OpEx from Taxonomy-
Taxonomy-aligned. Within the Taxonomy-aligned CapEx, the eligible and/or -aligned economic activities to total OpEx.
majority is related to additions to property, plant and The total OpEx comprises direct non-capitalized costs related
equipment (€0.4 billion), while the remainder pertains to to research and development, building renovation measures,
capitalized right-of-use assets (€0.2 billion) and internally short-term leases, maintenance and repairs, and any other
generated intangible assets (€0.1 billion). direct expenditures relating to the day-to-day servicing of
assets of property, plant, and equipment as defined in Annex
The contributors for alignment in CapEx were primarily the I of the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178.
following activities: (i) Acquisition and ownership of buildings Within Siemens’ OpEx, 74.0% (€5.5 billion) were Taxonomy-
(CCM 7.7) related to Siemens’ real estate portfolio, (ii) Provision eligible and 32.3% (€2.4 billion) were Taxonomy-aligned in
of IT/OT data-driven solutions (CE 4.1), and (iii) Manufacture the reporting year. The Taxonomy-aligned OpEx is mainly
of low-carbon technologies for transport (CCM 3.3). composed of research and development expenditures
(€2.3 billion), the remainder relates to maintenance and
repair costs (€80 million), building renovation measures
(€29 million), and short-term leases (€18 million).
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 87
4.4 EU Taxonomy
Taxonomy-aligned expenditures related primarily to pro- Smart Infrastructure: A substantial portion of the Smart
cesses and assets associated with economic activities also Infrastructure portfolio was already eligible for climate-
being main alignment contributors for the revenue figure, objective related EU Taxonomy reporting last year; including
with the major share resulting from the activity Provision of energy efficient equipment for buildings and services for
IT/OT data-driven solutions supporting circular economy energy performance of buildings (CCM 7.5). The coverage
(CE 4.1). Taxonomy-aligned OpEx included €10 million for Smart Infrastructure increased further in fiscal 2024,
related to the CapEx plan mentioned above. especially through the addition of the new activity Manufac-
ture, installation, and servicing of high, medium and low
Eligible, non-aligned OpEx consisted mainly of (i) Manufac- voltage electrical equipment for electrical transmission and
ture of electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2), and (ii) distribution resulting in or enabling a substantial contribu-
Manufacture, installation, and servicing of high, medium tion to climate change mitigation (CCM 3.20).
and low voltage electrical equipment for electrical transmis-
sion and distribution that result in or enable a substantial Mobility: By providing products, solutions and services in
contribution to climate change mitigation (CCM 3.20). the area of rail passenger and freight transportation, the
Siemens Mobility portfolio was fully eligible, contributing to
As for revenue, the difference between Taxonomy-eligible climate change mitigation through Manu facturing of low
OpEx and Taxonomy-aligned OpEx was mainly due to criteria carbon technologies for transportation (CCM 3.3), and pro-
related to substances of concern, mentioned above under viding Infrastructure for rail transportation and infrastructure
“revenue figure”. enabling public transport (CCM 6.14, CCM 6.15).
Key economic activities in the context of our Siemens Healthineers: Siemens Healthineers reported an
Industrial Business increase in Taxonomy-eligibility in 2024 due to the expansion
Whereas reported EU-Taxonomy figures are based on of the EU Taxonomy regulation. With Siemens Healthineers
Siemens Group, this section provides contextual information being a global provider of healthcare equipment, a portion
specifically for Siemens’ Industrial Businesses. of the business can be assigned to the environmental objec-
tive Transition to a circular economy and the related activity
Digital Industries: For fiscal 2024, the share of Taxonomy- Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2).
eligible revenue, CapEx and OpEx associated with Digital
Industries’ automation and software offerings increased due Determination of Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned
to new economic activities. This is driven by the newly added figures
environmental objective Transition to a circular economy and For calculating the Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned key figures,
its related economic activities concerning Manufacturing of Siemens’ business activities and associated revenue, CapEx
electrical and electronic equipment (CE 1.2) and Provision of and OpEx were mapped to applicable economic activities
data-driven solutions contributing to a circular economy listed in the respective Taxonomy Climate and Environmental
(CE 4.1) as well as the new activity Manufacture, installation, Delegated Acts. Where necessary, allocation keys were used
and servicing of high, medium and low voltage electrical for the calculation of CapEx and OpEx based on the revenue
equipment for electrical transmission and distribution resulting share of the Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned activities. To
or enabling a substantial contribution to climate change avoid double counting in the calculation of the Taxonomy
mitigation (CCM 3.20). figures, it was ensured that revenue, CapEx and OpEx were
allocated only to the environmental objective they substan-
tially contribute to, even if there is a contribution to multiple
objectives.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 88
4.4 EU Taxonomy
For evaluation of EU Taxonomy alignment, the Substantial Accordingly, based on the specific regulatory requirements
Contribution criteria for all Taxonomy-eligible business activ- and together with technical and/or local experts, the DNSH
ities were assessed and documented by experts from the criteria were assessed on the product, site, project and/or
respective businesses and organizational units supported by supplier level. This included for example an analysis of risks
our internal software solution. Depending on the type of arising from climate change using climate risk and vulnerability
economic activity, the assessment level was based on internal assessments across various levels of the organization. An
reporting hierarchy levels, such as business-segment, product- additional requirement for EU Taxonomy alignment is compli-
family or project level. The assessment of activities substan- ance with minimum safeguards (MS) as outlined in Article 18
tially contributing to climate change mitigation included for of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. The MS requirements are
example the comparison of our rail rolling stock portfolio met. To assess and comply with the MS requirements covering
(including bi-mode vehicles) to the criteria of zero direct CO2 the areas of human rights, anti-corruption and bribery, taxation
emissions. For the activity Provision of data-driven solutions and fair competition, Siemens has introduced a standard-
contributing to a circular economy (CE 4.1) as an example, ized, group-wide assessment of due diligence processes.
assessments were carried out at a product group level, con- Arisen issues are addressed, using established grievance
sidering the various categories under CE 4.1, including (a) mechanisms and remediation measures. For companies and
remote monitoring and predictive maintenance systems, (b) units that become part of the Siemens Group, this assessment
tracking and tracing software and IT/OT systems, (d) design process is also rolled out as part of the integration process.
and engineering software, and (f) lifecycle performance SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT
management software. We compared and evaluated the
respective product group against the specific Substantial
Contribution criteria, e.g. (d) whether our design and engi-
neering software includes features allowing to make informed
decisions on the circularity and environmental performance
of products already during the product design phase.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 89
Pages 90 – 116
Social
Contribution to
people and society
Equity Employability
Foster diversity, equity, inclusion, and community Enable people to stay resilient and relevant in a
development to create a sense of belonging permanently changing environment
Our key ambitions1 Our key ambitions1
→ 30% female share in Top Management by 2025 → Increase digital learning hours to “25 by 25”4
→ Access to employee share plans – Maintain high → Access to Employee Assistance program: Maintain
level and expand globally to up to 100% by 20252 high level and expand to 100% globally by 2025
→ Global commitment to the New Normal Working → 30% improvement in Siemens’ globally aggregated
Model3 LTIFR5 by 2025
Additional highlights Additional highlights
→ Our new “P&O Strategy 2030”1 for 2030 and beyond → MyGrowth approach to foster individual growth and
our own people performance at scale1
→ Aiming to build greater equity through our global → Broad portfolio for vocational education and training,
Gender Equity Program1 and lifelong learning and growth for enabling our
→ Social engagement with three strategic priorities – new “P&O Strategy 2030” with the ambition “Skills
giving societies access to knowledge and technologies for Life”1
→ Continued worldwide rollout of the Healthy and
Safe @ Siemens program
1 Siemens without SHS.
2 Where legally possible and reasonable.
3 For employees with job profiles that make this possible and reasonable.
4 Digital learning hours per headcount.
5 LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (of Siemens employees and temporary workers) baseline fiscal 2020.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 90
5.1 Working at Siemens
5.1
Working at Siemens
– Our new “P&O Strategy 2030”1 for 2030 and To support Siemens in living up to “Transform the everyday,
beyond our own people for everyone”, we take a long-term view in our P&O Strategy
– Global values and global corporate culture 20301.
– 327,0002 employees worldwide
Transforming the everyday, for everyone1
The key enablers that are critical to addressing the opportu-
Management approach nities and keeping Siemens successful in our leading and
In developing our future strategy, we analyzed disruptive future businesses, and that support Siemens’ purpose of
trends and assessed their impact on People & Organization Transforming the everyday for everyone, are translated into
(P&O) issues and our organizational readiness. This analysis the three key ambitions of our P&O Strategy 20301:
revealed not only inherent risks, but also valuable opportu-
nities for our transformation. → Skills for Life
→ Organizing for Impact
We believe that people and organizations are at the core of → Leaders who Transform
all transformations. While people are behind every move-
ment, technology, or bright idea, organizing for impact
maximizes value. Both are essential to drive sustainable
business outcomes.
As One Technology Company, we transform the everyday, for everyone1
Organizing
for
Impact
Leader s
who
Transform
Skills
for
Life
Our People Business
Ecosystem Society
1 Siemens without SHS.
2 All employee figures in this chapter refer to headcount and active employees.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 91
5.1 Working at Siemens
Skills for Life: → Our global and local P&O Business Partners (BPs)1 are
To actively address the fast-paced, changing circumstances working with our managers to focus on strategic P&O
and talent shortage, we need to rethink re- and upskilling. topics and implementation that will support the business
The need for targeted, personalized learning will drive our and functional needs.
ability to develop sustainable capabilities and remain rele- → Our local P&O teams and Siemens’ internal Global Shared
vant and competitive. This allows us to increase employability Service1 centers manage people operations.
and development for our people, as well as elevate organiza-
tional adaptiveness by building a broader range of talent Establishing a culture of trust
pools. Siemens’ values and ethical standards for doing business are
anchored in our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs). The
Organizing for Impact: BCGs define the basic principles and rules for our conduct
To lead increasing business transformation needs and in both inside and outside the company. The BCGs are binding
light of the speed of the market, our organizations need to for our employees, managers, and top management globally.
operate quicker, be more integrated, and build stronger The principles of human rights, non-discrimination and
capabilities. This goes beyond organizational structures – it non-intimidation, free choice of employment, prohibition of
involves a systematic way of driving organizational effective- child labor, prohibition of forced labor and all forms of slav-
ness, solving problems, and improving organizational perfor- ery, fair employment (including adequate compensation and
mance. appropriate working hours), freedom of association and
collective bargaining, health, occupational safety, personal
Leaders who Transform: security, and protection and privacy of personal data are
The role of leadership is essential to the Siemens strategy of embedded in Siemens’ BCGs, International Framework
combining the real and the digital worlds. By driving our Agreement (IFA), Human Rights policies1, and Compliance
strategy and organizations, as well as elevating people’s system. COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS
experiences and engagement, our leaders support people
thrive and grow in transformational environments. It is We place fair treatment and respect at the heart of our value
paramount to have a myriad of strong leaders across all our system. Our aim is to respect the personal dignity, privacy,
organizations. and rights of each individual. We believe that diversity
enriches our workplace. We work together without regard to
Our People & Organization governance and policies ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, disability, skin color,
The People & Organization (P&O)1 unit, headed by our Chief gender, sexual identity and orientation, or worldview. We do
People and Sustainability Officer (CPSO), is responsible for not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of
regulations and standards for our people that establish an harassment, or inappropriate behavior towards individuals
integrating, empowering culture of growth and transformation, or groups. HUMAN RIGHTS
that aims to support both a sustainable business success and
our people’s employability. All P&O Governance units are Targets
working with our country and local business P&O functions We have adopted ambitious, specific goals in our DEGREE
to align them with local labor laws, support them to drive sustainability framework.1 The three fields of action – Ethics,
transformation and digitalization, and attract and retain Equity, and Employability – are key priority areas for the P&O
talents. unit at Siemens.1 OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
→ Our global and local P&O Governance1 are responsible for → Ethics: We foster a culture of trust, adherence to ethical
(global) policies, standards, and top strategic initiatives in standards, and handling data with care. Our values and
P&O-related areas. Ethical Principles are embedded in our BCGs, on which all
our people are trained regularly. COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 92
5.1 Working at Siemens
→ Equity: Fair treatment and respect are at the core of our
corporate values. We aim to be the employer of choice E quity
and to foster diversity, inclusion, and community. In
Progress on DEGREE ambition #10:
addition to fostering a culture of trust and empowerment,
Access to employee share plans –
we want to create a sense of belonging and a safe envi-
maintain high level and expand globally
ronment where our people can give their best. DIVERSITY,
to up to 100% by 2025
EQUITY, AND INCLUSION
→ Employability: We continually invest in all levels of train- Siemens’ employee share program strengthens
identification with the company
ing for our people. We support their resilience as people
and relevance as skilled workers. We strive to enable our Employee share ownership is an integral part of the
people to manage change effectively and to surpass their Siemens DEGREE sustainability framework: We aim to
previous performance levels. We focus on digital learning, maintain access to our employee share program at
employee assistance programs, and occupational health the 98% level and expand it globally to up to 100% by
and safety measures for them. 2025.1 Owning a stake in the company is intended to
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION, AND LIFELONG LEARNING AND GROWTH motivate our people to take personal responsibility
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT for their own actions. This ownership culture has a
long tradition at Siemens: Our first profit-sharing
In addition, the P&O unit supports the DEGREE Governance program was introduced back in 1858. Today the
ambition by integrating ESG criteria into the long-term global Siemens share program, which has been
variable compensation programs3 for the Managing Board offered annually since 2008, is one of the largest
and senior management.1 employee share programs in the world. More than
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION 107,000 employees invested in their company in
fiscal 2024, which means that more than 44% of all
Actions and results eligible employees participated.2 In addition,
Siemens AG distributed more than 439,000 free
Strengthen our Siemens Employer Brand to bonus shares to employees in the past fiscal year as
attract and retain talent1 part of the global share program. We are proud to
In 2024 we strengthened and expanded our employer have effectively established global access to employee
branding campaign Create a better #TomorrowWithUs to share plans. OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
new markets. This campaign was launched to attract and
retain top talent for Siemens and position us as an inclusive Siemens Healthineers has its own share program that
employer of choice. Siemens is transitioning more and more it offers to its employees.
to a technology company that drives sustainability. Our goal
is to position Siemens as an inclusive employer of choice in Progress
all our relevant talent markets. This has also received exter- FY 21: 98% 99.96% ~ 100% by 2025
nal recognition, as Siemens has been listed “World’s Best
1 Where legally possible and reasonable.
Employers 2024” by Forbes and “World’s Most Attractive
2 Participation is open to all employees who were employed by a participating
Employers 2024” by Universum. Siemens subsidiary on October 1 of the previous calendar year and continue
to be employed at a participating Siemens subsidiary until at least the
last day of the applicable offer period. Members of the Managing Board
are excluded.
Siemens without SHS.
1 Siemens without SHS.
3 Assessment based on a Siemens ESG/Sustainability index. Currently, ESG criteria
include CO2e emissions and digital learning hours.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 93
5.1 Working at Siemens
Fair and equitable talent process Social dialog and relationship management
Talent markets continue to be highly dynamic and competitive. Enabling a safe dialog between Siemens and our employee
It is becoming harder to attract and retain highly sought- representatives is important for building trust with our
after talents that are key to driving the Siemens transformation. people. The following employee representative bodies are
Candidates are clear about their expectations of an attractive established at Siemens:
employer:
(a) empowerment and personal choice → The Siemens Group Works Council, Central Works Councils,
(b) skill development and local Works Councils represent all our people (exclud-
(c) a sense of belonging and contributing to a larger purpose ing senior managers) at Siemens in Germany. Special
representation exists for our disabled people and young
Growing our people is a vital answer in tight talent markets. workers/apprentices. Senior managers at Siemens in
Germany are represented by the Siemens Group Speakers’
We are committed to transparent and equitable access to Committee, Central Speakers’ Committees, and local
career opportunities and equal pay for equal work for our Speakers’ Committees.
people. With access to our open and transparent Job Market → Our Siemens Europe Committee (SEC) comprises 36 rep-
and by leveraging new technologies to improve our skill- resentatives from 23 countries. The SEC represents our
based recruiting, we foster cross-organizational develop- people in the EU countries and the UK, Switzerland, and
ment to increase internal mobility as well. Our Siemens Norway. In addition to three regional meetings, the
MyGrowth development approach and talent programs are annual SEC meeting with all SEC members, representa-
designed to help develop our people’s full potential.1 tives of the company, and our Chief People and Sustain-
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION, AND LIFELONG LEARNING AND GROWTH ability Officer (CPSO) took place in fiscal 2024.
→ In fiscal 2024, Siemens also held meetings with employee
Right to collective bargaining and freedom of representatives and unions in non-EU countries.
association
The principles of fair pay, the right to collective bargaining, Commitment to fair pay
and freedom of association are embedded in Siemens’ BCGs We want to guarantee fair pay for our people that at least
and International Framework Agreement (IFA). COMPLIANCE conforms to the national statutory minimum wage. Subject
AND ETHICS Siemens AG reaffirmed its commitment to workers’ to national regulations, Siemens adheres to the principle of
fundamental rights in our IFA signed with trade unions and ’equal pay for equal work’: for instance, equity in wages for
our employee representatives in 2012. HUMAN RIGHTS women and men with the same job profile or role.
The pay system at Siemens in Germany is largely determined We also regularly review pay parity. In fiscal 2024, we
by collective bargaining agreements negotiated between the conducted our global employee pay parity analysis5 using a
trade union “IG Metall” and employers’ associations in the statistical modelling approach to understand and assess pay
metal and electrical industry (M+E). In fiscal 2024, 94%4 of parity at Siemens. We advocate for gender equity as further
our employees in Germany were employed in companies commitment to our uncompromising stance on paying
that apply collective bargaining agreements. people fairly. We continue to work towards establishing a
long-term cultural change that supports our pay parity
ambitions and contributes to a sustainable society.
1 Siemens without SHS.
4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (e.g., because of their union
membership, reference clause in the employment contract) and employees whose
working conditions and terms of employment are influenced by collective bargaining
agreements, e.g., because a collective bargaining agreement sets the lower limit for
remuneration. 5 Siemens operating countries. Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 94
5.1 Working at Siemens
Employee benefits and opportunities for today
and tomorrow E quity
In an ever-changing world, we continuously review and
Progress on DEGREE ambition #11:
modernize employee benefits. We offer flexible benefits
Global commitment to the New Normal
programs that support our people’s physical, mental, financial,
Working Model1
career, and social well-being throughout their work-life
journey. With equity and inclusion in mind, the Siemens At Siemens, mobile working and flexibility of work
benefits programs1 aim to empower our people to realize location in the established hybrid New Normal Work-
their full potential and strengthen their resilience through a ing Model (2–3 days of mobile work per week as a
variety of benefits programs, insurance policies, retirement standard offering for our people worldwide) also
arrangements, and elective coverage. With a focus on sus- strengthen our ability to attract and retain the best
tainability and the diverse, evolving needs of employees and talent. Our DEGREE ambition of a global commitment
their families worldwide, we closely monitor the external to the New Normal Working Model supports this aim
market for the latest industry trends and innovations. worldwide. We are proud of this commitment.1
SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
PENSIONS
Progress
Eligibility for Siemens’ sponsored benefits such as share Committed
plans, company pension scheme, the employee benefits
1 For employees with job profiles that make this possible and reasonable.
programs, and parental/family leave regulations varies by
Siemens without SHS.
country. Country-specific plans generally follow local regula-
tions and market practices.
Work-life balance
To provide our people with even more flexibility and individ- We also encourage our people to achieve a balance between
ual solutions, we offer flexible working models. These mod- work and caring for relatives. As this topic continues to grow
els are structured according to local requirements and in importance, we will support our people in Germany who
tailored to meet diverse employees’ roles and business provide care for close family members. We offer a variety of
needs. For instance, Siemens offers mobile working, part- support options through the Elder Care program1. This pro-
time work, sabbaticals, time-outs, parental/family leave, and gram is based on four pillars: time off work and flexible
partial early retirement. Parental leave for primary and working, communication, counseling, and training on health
secondary caregivers enables our people to manage their matters.
unique work-life needs. Company and country-specific
working models may differ and follow local regulations and Childcare at Siemens
market practices. Through family-friendly benefits, we support our employees
when and how they require support. A few examples of these
Mobile working has been established as a core element of benefits in Germany include the following: In fiscal 2024, as
the “New Normal” to promote a sustainable work culture and part of its family-friendly corporate policy, Siemens AG sup-
environment. ported its people in Germany with a general tax-free child-
care allowance of up to €100 per calendar month per child
for the care of preschool-age children at a day-care center or
similar facility. Siemens AG also grants its part-time employees
in Germany a tax-free childcare allowance during parental
leave for children up to 14 months of age.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 95
5.1 Working at Siemens
There are other options that our people in Germany can In addition, the Werner von Siemens Awards1 are given in
benefit from; for instance, approximately 1,3001 childcare seven different categories to honor achievements that have
places, a summer vacation childcare program, and parent- had a positive impact on Siemens and beyond. Sustainability
child health retreats. is an integral focus of the Werner von Siemens Awards. In
2024, the trophies were presented to the strongest Business
Shaping the future of work1 Unit, country and five project teams that enabled our cus-
Siemens tackles structural changes in the working environ- tomers to transform their industries, accelerated digitaliza-
ment by asking two essential questions: tion, contributed to technological innovation, empowered
Siemens’ people, and positively impacted society and the
→ HOW will we work in the future? (#NewWork) environment. Approximately 11,900 employees participated
→ WHAT will we work on in the future? (#NextWork) in this competition in 2024 and submitted 391 entries.
#NewWork focuses on helping organizations and individuals Employee structure and change
become more flexible and adaptable. For instance, exploring As of September 30, 2024, Siemens employed 327,000
new forms of agile organization, collaboration, leadership, employees around the world. This amounts to an increase of
and flexible working conditions. about 7,000 employees from September 30, 2023. 55% of
our employees were based in Europe, the Commonwealth of
In 2020, Siemens introduced #NextWork, which is a method- Independent States (C.I.S.), the Middle East, and Africa, 24%
ology we use to proactively tackle the changing environment in Asia and Australia, and 21% in North America, Central
by preparing the organization and our people to stay relevant America, and South America.
and employable. With #NextWork, we are addressing the key
question of what our future jobs will look like. This includes
identifying the roles, skills, and tasks of tomorrow and pro- Siemens employees
viding specific and actionable workforce transformation (in % of total number of employees) September 30, 2024
roadmaps through our P&O Strategy 20301 and our ambition
21%
Skills for Life1. PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION, AND LIFELONG LEARNING 24% Americas
Asia, Australia
AND GROWTH
327,000
Engagement with stakeholders total
55%
To highlight our culture of trust and empowerment, we are
Europe, C.I.S.1,
pursuing two initiatives that concentrate on understanding Middle East,
Africa
and taking account of our people’s experiences and recog-
nizing their achievements: 1 Commonwealth of Independent States.
We use the results of our Siemens Global Engagement Sur-
vey (SGES)1 at regular intervals to assess the efficiency and The percentage of women in the total workforce is 28%.
success of our actions and to derive any necessary steps for
improvement. In January 2024, we had a response rate for
the SGES of 68% (increase of 3 percentage points from the 28%
year before). Our People Net Promoter Score (pNPS) was 41
(+2 points from the prior year). Women as a
percentage of total
employees
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 96
5.1 Working at Siemens
Hires and exits Employment characteristics
The number of new hires decreased by approximately 12% In fiscal 2024, 95% of our own workforce had permanent
compared to fiscal 2023, and the number of exits decreased contracts.
by about 7%. All other differences result from changes in the
basis of consolidation and other changes.
Permanent and temporary employees
Fiscal year
Employees hired (in thousands) 2024 2023
Fiscal year Permanent 309 300
(in thousands) 2024 2023 Temporary 16 19
Siemens 35.7 40.7 Total 327 320
Europe, C.I.S.¹, Middle East, Africa 15.1 17.3
Americas 11.5 12.0 4% of our own workforce used part-time working models.
Asia, Australia 9.1 11.4
Full-time and part-time employees
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.
Fiscal year
(in thousands) 2024 2023
Women hired
Full-time 311 305
Fiscal year
Part-time 15 14
(as a percentage of new hires) 2024 2023
Total 327 320
Siemens 31 30
Europe, C.I.S.¹, Middle East, Africa 29 29 Changes in age distribution
Americas 32 29
The distribution of employees by age group remained almost
Asia, Australia 34 32
unchanged from the previous year. The average age in fiscal
1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 2024 was 42 years.
Employee turnover rate¹
Age structure
Fiscal year (as a percentage of total employees) September 30, 2024
(in %) 2024 2023
< 30 30 – 50 > 50
Voluntary turnover rate2 4.4 5.3
Siemens 15% 60% 25%
Involuntary turnover rate3: 4.3 4.3
Europe, C.I.S.1,
• Dismissals 1.1 1.1 13% 57% 30%
Middle East, Africa
• End of temporary contract, mutual consent 1.8 1.6
Americas 16% 53% 31%
• Retirement 1.3 1.2
• Other reasons 0.2 0.4
Asia, Australia 20% 71% 9%
Total 8.7 9.6
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.
1 Employee turnover is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from
Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
2 Voluntary turnover rate is based on employee decisions.
3 Involuntary turnover rate is based on other reasons, including dismissals, end of Further data on Working at Siemens are disclosed in the
temporary contracts, mutual consent, (early) retirement, death, and other reasons
that are not an employee decision. indicator table. OUR SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 97
5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
5.2
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
– Working to strengthen a sense of belonging for all We work to ensure that our DEI activities abide by relevant
our people laws and regulations and to reduce the risk of biased talent
– Aiming to build greater equity through our global decisions and other discrimination. To grow our workforce
Gender Equity Program1 more equitably, we have implemented recruitment and
– Achieving our DEGREE ambition of “30% female internal promotion strategies through our Gender Equity
share in Top Management by 2025” early for the Program (GEP)1 and inclusive-language job posts1. We also
second fiscal year in a row1 offer learning and enrichment opportunities through our DEI
Learning Channel2 and Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)1;
empower managers and teams through our Belonging Play-
Management approach book2; and foster open dialogs during our Belonging Days2.
Today’s rapid rate of change and globalization — for our PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION, AND LIFELONG LEARNING AND GROWTH
industry and the world around us — brings new opportunities
and challenges, which we can best address with innovative Our governance and policies for diversity, equity,
ideas fueled by the diversity of our people. and inclusion
Our global DEI team members are active in many regions of
At Siemens, we aim to create a sense of belonging that the world. Led by our Chief Diversity Officer (CDO), the
empowers us all, finding untapped opportunities for indi- Global DEI Office develops and manages a wide range of
vidual growth and shared experiences for our people. In supportive activities.1 Siemens Healthineers has its own DEI
fact, that belief inspired the creation of our motto organization to orchestrate its ambitions and activities,
#BelongingTransforms.2 helping to broaden our DEI opportunities around the world.
We recognize that — by raising awareness of our people’s In addition, our commitment to Human Rights is anchored in
unique identities, experiences, and perspectives — we can our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), global
foster an inclusive environment where everyone can thrive. Human Rights policy1, and our Diversity Charta3. We do not
To transform the everyday for everyone everywhere, we tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other form of harass-
believe that the more diverse we are, the better able we will ment, or inappropriate behavior toward individuals or
be to tackle what lies ahead. Further, we believe that the groups. Our BCGs clearly state:
diversity of our people can positively influence actions,
decisions, and beliefs across Siemens — today and tomorrow. → “We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of
each individual. We believe diversity enriches our work-
We aspire to create new awareness and connections through place. We work together without regard to ethnic origin,
our diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) activities. By sup- culture, religion, age, disability, skin color, gender, sexual
porting a shared sense of belonging for our people, we strive identity and orientation, or world view.”
to reflect the multifaceted society in which we operate and → “We respect the human rights of local communities and of
commit to fairness and the elimination of barriers. Our people who are particularly vulnerable.” HUMAN RIGHTS
ambition is for our people to feel respected, supported, valued,
1 In accordance with applicable laws; Siemens without SHS.
and empowered to contribute to our collective success at
2 Siemens without SHS.
Siemens. 3 For instance: Siemens AG Germany, Siemens Corp United States, Siemens PLC GBK&I,
Siemens Mobility Pty Ltd. Australia and New Zealand, Siemens Group Ltd. Brazil,
Siemens Canada Limited, Siemens Inc. Philippines, Siemens Industry Software AB,
Siemens A/S, Siemens Industry Software A/S, Siemens Mobility A/S, Siemens South
Africa, and Brightly.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 98
5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Targets Actions and results
Equity is one field of action of our DEGREE sustainability Through the actions described in this chapter, we aim to
framework that contributes to a greater sense of belonging create an environment where everyone can come as they
for all our people. DEGREE ambition #9 — “30% female share are, feel empowered, perform at their best, and enhance
in Top Management” — is aimed at continuously improving their skills.
gender equity.4
Global DEI standards, ERGs, and further activities
The diversity of our people influences better understanding
and representation in the markets and communities we
E quity
serve — helping to elevate Siemens across the competitive
Progress on DEGREE ambition #9: landscape and as an employer of choice. We strive for every
30% female share in Top Management voice, every idea, and every talent to find its rightful place
by 2025 and purpose at Siemens by regularly inviting insights
through our internal survey processes, ERGs, social media
We aim to increase the percentage of Top Manage- communities, leader dialogs, and other engagement oppor-
ment positions held by women globally to 30% by tunities.
September 30, 2025.1 As of September 30, 2024,
32.6% of Top Management positions were held by Our global DEI efforts highlight an array of diversity dimen-
women (+1.5 percentage points compared to the sions in support of our people at Siemens. For instance, we
previous year). We are proud to have reached our have helped create infrastructure to develop, support, and
ambition in advance and are focused on bringing our promote more than 80 ERGs around the world1 in the areas
commitment to the next level. of ability, cultural diversity, pride, gender, and other dimen-
OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK sions and interests.
Progress Helping to transform our business and bolster our commitment
to DEI, our ERGs1 promote allyship, engagement, mentor-
FY 20: 22.7% 32.6% 30% by 2025
ship, and mutual learning. Some of our many ERGs1 include
1 This does not affect local or company-specific diversity targets and
the Asian Cultural Exchange (global), Siemens PRIDE (global),
requirements set by law or regulation. More details about the targets and
staffing requirements that apply to Siemens AG, as well as the diversity Neurodiversity Network (United Kingdom), Black Profes-
concepts that are being pursued for the Supervisory Board and Managing
Board of Siemens AG, can be found in the annual Corporate Governance sional Network (United States), and Women in Tech (China).
Statement available on the Siemens Investor Relations website under the
Corporate Governance heading. Of note, we globalized our Ability@Siemens1 network in fiscal
2024 by scaling the reach of our ability-focused network that
Siemens without SHS.
originated in Germany. Similarly, we launched an umbrella
Women@Siemens1 network globally on International Women’s
Day to better connect, support, and align our existing women-
Our commitment to greater gender equity is not limited to focused ERGs.5
Top Management or statutory and regulatory requirements.
We strive for equal opportunities for everyone at our com- Additionally, our global DEI Learning Channel, DEI Belonging
pany. intranet, Siemens World news articles, and external DEI
webpage raise awareness of the need for a more diverse,
equitable, and inclusive workplace — helping to address
potential biases, as well.2
1 In accordance with applicable laws; Siemens without SHS.
2 Siemens without SHS.
4 This does not affect local or company-specific diversity targets and requirements set
by law or regulation; Siemens without SHS.
5 All are welcome to join, regardless of gender.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 99
5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Siemens also participates in strategic sponsorships and Inclusion of people with disabilities
partnerships that support relevant programs, including the We strive to ensure equity for people of all abilities, their
Charta der Vielfalt2. In alignment with our Diversity Charta3, inclusion in society and the workplace, their self-determined
Siemens and its General Works Council have initiated activities participation, and their right to be treated with respect.
like Respect and Appreciation, supporting local projects
designed to bring these values to life for our people in We believe that every person at Siemens brings unique value
Germany. Siemens has also signed on with the Deutsche to our work through their diverse abilities, talents, and con-
Aidshilfe #PositivArbeiten/#PositiveWork initiative as a decla- tributions. For us, inclusion means more than just ensuring
ration of respect and support of people with HIV in our accessibility and a barrier-free work environment. We aspire
workforce and beyond. Furthermore, Siemens has pledged to a holistic way of thinking and acting that eliminates both
our support, along with more than 30 German companies, to visible and invisible obstacles and encourages a culture of
the We stand for values initiative — uniting against racism conscious, equitable participation and understanding.
and extremism while encouraging our people to take part in
the 2024 European elections. In doing so, we have made a clear Our German Ability@Siemens1 initiative, its external blog,
stand with our values of diversity, openness, and tolerance.6 and Siemens World news articles promote a culture of inte-
gration for nearly 4,9008 people with disabilities currently
Our German program Trans* at work1 supports our people working at Siemens. This focused work is based on an inclusion
with collegial counselling before, during, and after transition. agreement with the general representative board for disabled
We also created relevant guidelines for our people and man- employees.9
agers, as well as partnered with our LGBTQIA+7 community
to establish Trans Advocates to serve as a first point of con- Further, Siemens’ 21-Day Challenge – Disability Inclusion
tact for the program. Additionally, Siemens enabled new Edition1 — exploring ways that our workplace can embrace
functionality in fiscal 2024 for our people to indicate their people with disabilities — was included in the Inclusion &
preferred (first/last) name in our global directory. Users can Diversity Case Studies published in 2024 by the European
also select pronouns (for instance, she/he/they).1 Round Table’s #EmbraceDifference campaign. Our case
study featured ways that we engaged our people from
Further, we support the UN Initiative for Global LGBTQIA+- around the world through daily recommendations for podcasts,
Standards of Conduct for Companies.6 videos, and articles.1
Initiatives like these enable Siemens to advance the principles A welcoming spirit of belonging, respect, and
of DEI for its people. acceptance
We strive to foster a spirit of belonging, respect, and accep-
Diversity, equity, and inclusion across all aspects tance around the world through our internal campaigns and
of our people’s experience global awareness days, such as International Women’s Day,
We work to integrate DEI into all aspects of our people’s Global Accessibility Awareness Day, and many others.
experience — from retention to recruitment and onboarding Through our #BelongingDays2, we offer diversity learning
to development, internal promotions, and career mobility. opportunities via a global broadcast for all our people,
We believe that DEI awareness in our processes is key to featuring a variety of diversity dimensions and abilities to
building a more diverse and inclusive working environment. build understanding and awareness.
1 In accordance with applicable laws; Siemens without SHS.
2 Siemens without SHS.
3 For instance: Siemens AG Germany, Siemens Corp United States, Siemens PLC GBK&I,
Siemens Mobility Pty Ltd. Australia and New Zealand, Siemens Group Ltd. Brazil,
Siemens Canada Limited, Siemens Inc. Philippines, Siemens Industry Software AB,
Siemens A/S, Siemens Industry Software A/S, Siemens Mobility A/S, Siemens South
Africa, and Brightly.
6 Siemens AG Germany.
7 Lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer, intersexual, and asexual.
8 The number of severely handicapped employees (SHE) in Germany is based on legally
defined guidelines and specifications according §§ 154-1+3 SGB IX (German Social Law).
9 Inclusion Agreement for Siemens AG Germany.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 100
5.2 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Siemens1 actively supports the worldwide #PurpleLightUp We are also pursuing a variety of initiatives, programs, and
movement, which honors the economic contribution of measures that help drive cultural change for gender equity,
working persons with disabilities all over the world. We do diversity, and integration, including13:
this as a signal of respect for the International Day of Persons
with Disabilities (IDPD) proclaimed by the United Nations. → Global Leadership of Women@Technology & Innovation
Many Siemens locations1 lit up in purple for IDPD on Decem- (GLOW@TI)2: The GLOW@TI network aims to promote
ber 3, 2023, sharing their photos and support across internal careers for women with a background in science. Women
and external social media. Siemens2 is also a member of the in this network are often appointed to technology field
Valuable 500, an initiative launched by the World Economic and research group management positions.13
Forum to place the concerns of persons with disabilities on → GROW2GLOW2: The GROW2GLOW network provides busi-
companies’ management agendas. ness coaching for women as a way of helping them realize
their full potential. The network comprises nearly 160
In addition, our global Gender Equity Program (GEP)1 aims to coaches in 14 countries.13
ensure equity of opportunities across our entire organiza-
tion — from equitable hiring into business functions and Measures of belonging, inclusion, and well-
equitable promotions to management to representation of being within Siemens and beyond
women in Top Management.10 In our Siemens Global Engagement Survey (SGES)2 in fiscal
2024, we asked our people about their experiences with
Accountability of our local CEOs and business belonging, inclusion, and well-being at Siemens to gain
leaders2 insights and identify opportunities to improve their satisfac-
We have seen that the involvement and accountability of our tion. Further, we continued our important work of encourag-
local CEOs and business leaders is key to the success of our ing our people to be themselves at work by implementing
DEGREE sustainability framework Equity field of action. With the measures mentioned in this section.
their continuous support and connection to our Global DEI
Office, we have acquired a deeper understanding of our In fiscal 2024, Siemens also received distinguished diversity
local communities and the societies in which we operate. acknowledgements worldwide, including “Disability:IN
Disability Equality Index Top-scoring Company” in the United
Women in our workforce States; “Pride Champion Gold” by Uhlala Group in Germany;
For many years, we have aspired to build a diverse, equita- “Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality – Human Rights
ble, and inclusive corporate culture. In fiscal 2024, the share Campaign (HRC)” in the United States; and the “LinkedIn Top
of female employees at Siemens was 28%. We have achieved Companies 2024” award in Austria, Germany, Italy, Spain,
measurable success by increasing the global share of man- and the United States.
agement positions held by women.11 In fiscal 2024, about
34,000 employees held management positions at Siemens.12 Further data on Diversity, Equity & Inclusion at Siemens are
The percentage of women in management positions was disclosed in the indicator table. OUR SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
22%.12
1 In accordance with applicable laws; Siemens without SHS.
2 Siemens without SHS.
10 Top Management defined as organizational level 1 and 2 below the board.
11 In accordance with applicable laws.
12 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary responsi-
bility.
13 We offer our employees coaching and development opportunities through our many
different learning programs, regardless of gender and in accordance with applicable
laws. These are just specific examples tailored to women at Siemens. Company and
country-specific programs may differ.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 101
5.3 Professional education, and lifelong learning and growth
5.3
Professional education, and lifelong learning
and growth
– Broad portfolio for vocational education and training Our ongoing investments in vocational education and train-
(VET), and lifelong learning and growth for ing (VET) and talent programs also help us attract and retain
enabling our new “P&O Strategy 2030” with the talents.
ambition “Skills for Life”1
– MyGrowth approach to foster individual growth Our governance and policies for professional
and performance at scale1 education, and lifelong learning and growth
– Achieving our DEGREE ambition of “25 digital Siemens’ global professional education, and lifelong learning
learning hours by 2025” one year in advance1 and growth governance units co-own winning, developing,
connecting, and retaining talents jointly with the business.
This is also anchored in our new P&O Strategy 2030 with the
Management approach ambition Skills for Life.1
Siemens’ continued growth and success depends on our
highly qualified and skilled people. That’s why we have set Our Global Learning and Growth (GLG)1 unit is responsible
up vocational education and training (VET) programs and for learning and individual growth at scale by orchestrating
developed an extensive portfolio of lifelong learning oppor- and managing our Siemens Learning & Growth ecosystem,
tunities to empower our people and help them acquire rele- including our MyGrowth1 approach, with our learning expe-
vant skills. rience platform My Learning World1, our policies, and other
strategic learning initiatives. It gives an orientation and
We are continuously improving our learning, career develop- guidance to our people and leadership and manages devel-
ment, and growth opportunities to positively impact our opment opportunities around the globe. We strive to contin-
people. We focus on lifelong learning and upskilling to uously develop skills as a competitive edge and strengthen
enable our people to adapt to an ever-changing environ- the resilience of our people, and organizations with focus on
ment. We promote a growth mindset in order to create an skills of strategic importance to our business as well as those
inclusive, empowering culture enhancing our people’s helping people to thrive in the future of work.
employability for today and tomorrow, as well as supporting
our sustainable business success. Siemens Professional Education (SPE) coordinates and
manages our international apprenticeships and dual-study
Our comprehensive learning portfolio enables us to continu- programs to support ongoing talent development.
ally evolve and expand our people’s core competencies. We
aim to support our people in successfully managing transi- As part of our commitment to our Siemens strategic priorities
tion and change while simultaneously enhancing Siemens’ of Empowered People and Growth Mindset, a core focus is
agility and resilience. Today’s talent pipeline needs to satisfy on driving awareness of the importance of lifelong learning.
an increasing need for digital and technical expertise. As the Siemens’ objective is to help our people manage change
pace of technological development and digitalization effectively and support them in remaining resilient as indi-
reduces the half-life of expertise, continuous learning and viduals and relevant to the employment market.
upskilling is fundamental to Siemens’ continuing success.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 102
5.3 Professional education, and lifelong learning and growth
Targets Customized development programs for our
In our Siemens DEGREE sustainability framework, our learn- people
ing ambition and measures related to lifelong learning are Our development programs are customized for both global
embedded in Employability, one of the six fields of action, in and local use. Key programs include:
order to encourage our people’s resilience.1
→ Siemens Core Learning Paths (CLP): Designed for specific
areas like sales, project management, procurement, pro-
duction, and software architecture, CLPs provide self-
E mployability
guided learning content and trainer-supported virtual
Progress on DEGREE ambition #12: training sessions. In fiscal 2024, a total of 30 CLPs were
Increase digital learning hours to “25 by 25” made available to target groups worldwide.
→ With our Siemens Potential Development Programs
In terms of our DEGREE ambitions, each employee (PDP)1, we have created an ever-growing network of more
completed 27 hours of digital learning (+20 hours than 4,700 people from 60 countries which constantly
from fiscal 2020, the basis year – a 286% increase). feeds our talent pipeline. 41 certified programs are hosted
We are proud to have reached our ambition one year in by different organizations according to their specific
advance and are focused on bringing our commitment business needs. They enable talents to acquire skills that
to the next level. address current and future needs through accelerated
OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK learning interventions and stretch assignments in order to
equip them to be powerful transformation agents.
Progress → GLOW@TI (Global Leadership of Women@Technology &
FY 20: 7h 27h 25h by 2025 Innovation)1: The GLOW@TI initiative focuses on attracting,
developing, and retaining talented women with a back-
Siemens without SHS.
ground in STEM and associated innovation fields. The
initiative helps women realize their full potential and
promotes a culture of innovation by building strong net-
works between departments and organizations.
Management compensation at Siemens also includes a life- → Siemens Leadership Excellence (SLE)1: Our SLE programs
long learning component. It incorporates long-term perfor- are designed to connect and enable our leaders. The
mance incentives based on ESG criteria and is defined under objective of our SLE-Pipeline programs for high-ranking
Governance in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The executives and global talents is to strategically strengthen
assessment is based on the internal ESG/Sustainability Index, our succession planning. Our top management leadership
which includes, among other things, digital learning hours.2 program Leading in Sustainability helps participants think
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION strategically about sustainability opportunities for
Siemens, identify sustainable solutions to their business
Actions and results challenges, and provide a common understanding of the
As a responsible employer, we offer a wide range of profes- core competencies and organizational readiness required
sional education and learning opportunities to our people. for corporate management and transformation. The SLE
These opportunities include development programs, talent- Leaders’ Labs for alumni also enable Siemens to build a
entry programs, future-oriented learning, re- and upskilling, strong global network of managers, both within the
and additional funding for appropriate programs. organization and beyond. As one of the strategic learning
1 Siemens without SHS.
2 Assessment based on the Siemens internal ESG/sustainability index, which is based
on CO2e reduction and digital learning hours.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 103
5.3 Professional education, and lifelong learning and growth
priorities, we initiated the new scalable L.E.A.P. – Lead. The MyGrowth1 approach combines our learning and career
Empower. Accelerate. Practice. program in 2023 for all development tools and content to promote continuous
management levels. In fiscal 2024 around 17,000 (18,000 growth at Siemens. This approach comprises the following
in fiscal 2023) leaders already joined the mandatory components, connected through our Growth Talks1:
L.E.A.P. training program. R.E.A.D.Y, the mandatory pro-
gram for newly appointed leaders, has been introduced in → MyGrowth Self-Reflection1: To build a successful career, it
fiscal 2024. Around 2,000 new leaders have started so far is essential for our people to become aware of their own
and dedicated themselves with around 14,000 learning self and their personal stage of development. A variety of
hours to the significant impact of leadership on our tools and services are offered along with content that
people’s experiences. includes identifying strengths (Strengthscope® tool) and
skills (My Skills application) perception of others (Multi-
Our talent entry programs for individual career source feedback tool), and coaching (various options
paths including peer-to-peer coaching).
Our continuous attraction, integration and development of → MyGrowth Learning1: Our AI-driven learning platform My
the next generation of leaders will allow us to build diverse Learning World supports both individual learning in the
and agile management teams capable of successfully flow of work and strategic learning based on Siemens’
managing transition while driving growth. Our people are strategy. Individual learning is offered as a personalized
grounded in a strong growth mindset and values of cohesion learning experience that is globally accessible at any time.
and dedication that extend above and beyond our programs More than 178,800 learning resources across a variety of
and even beyond their time at Siemens. topics and formats are available to meet our people’s
varied learning preferences and requirements. Strategic
→ Siemens Graduate Program (SGP) is an international learning is enabled through setting top down learning
trainee program for high-potential early career candidates topics and leveraging the mechanisms in My Learning
with a master’s degree that has been in existence for World to reach all our people in a targeted and scalable
more than 100 years. It offers a customized development way.
journey and excellent networking opportunities through- → MyGrowth Career1: Integrated into a holistic concept,
out the company. MyGrowth Career allows our people to shape their own
→ Finance Excellence Program (FEP) is a finance leadership career development. Core components of MyGrowth
program that builds a foundation for future commercial Career include the transparency on open job positions
leaders with a digital mindset. Participants benefit from reflected in the Open Job Market, as well as People Profile
being assigned a personal mentor from Siemens’ finance and other options like Job Tagging (showing interest in a
leadership team and customized development measures. particular department), Job Shadowing, and Mentoring to
→ Xcelerate Your Potential at Siemens – XPS Leadership encourage personal and professional growth.
Program1 is an opportunity for outstanding mid-career
candidates in the field of digital business management. Siemens Growth Talks1 are the connecting link between the
By developing their skills and their global networks, the components mentioned above. Our people receive regular
program supports participants develop in leadership performance reviews in the form of Siemens Growth Talks.
roles. These agile, ongoing, forward-looking, strength-based
conversations support individual as well as organizational
Our shift to digital learning & growth is key growth, performance, and well-being. Support materials like
We have seen digital learning & growth accelerate in recent discussion guidelines, questions for reflection, and workshop
years as the global pandemic compelled a shift in how we templates help our people in direct exchange and team
reach our people. Based on the positive reception, we con- conversations to maintain a respectful, and encouraging
tinuously invested in digital learning & growth offerings for dialog.
increased flexibility to learn and develop in the flow of work.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 104
5.3 Professional education, and lifelong learning and growth
Future Fund supports the transition to a new Vocational training to start your career
world of work1 With a dedicated in-house education institution for voca-
Siemens AG and its Central Works Council intend to take a tional training — Siemens Professional Education (SPE) —
proactive role in shaping structural change. We are working Siemens is one of the largest training companies for
together to create a learning organization that can master secondary school graduates. SPE offers apprenticeships and
structural transformation as well as optimize the opportunities dual-study programs in technical, IT, and commercial fields
of change that will benefit our people. A Future Fund has to enable young talents to strengthen their existing capabil-
been established to support development programs intended ities and acquire the new skills needed to shape a digital and
to help our people stay oriented in a disruptive employment sustainable future. In fiscal 2024, we had approximately
environment. In particular, it enables them to qualify and 6,300 apprentices and students in dual-study programs
learn beyond their previous limits. It finances projects related worldwide.
to structural change that go beyond site boundaries, with
support from the site management and the Central Works Lifelong learning is crucial to success
Council. On average, each employee spent about 32 hours in digital
learning or on-site trainings during the fiscal year. Our new
Siemens AG in Germany allocated a total of €100 million for training opportunities and learning week promotions
the Future Fund that will be invested over a period of four resulted in an increase in the number of training hours in
fiscal years starting in January 2019. The term of the Future fiscal 2024.
Fund has now been extended to 2026. More than €8 million
were approved for Future Fund projects in fiscal 2024, about
€5 million more than in the previous year. Included in this Average training hours per employee
amount are about €825,000, allocated for the implementation
of special initiatives to promote the sustainability mindset of
our people in Germany.
∅ 32
training hours per employee.
Our open SiTecSkills Academy for technical
re- and upskilling
Average training hours per employee by gender
Since 2022 we have been working closely with our external
in fiscal 2024:
education partners to share our expertise and experience in
skilled worker qualification within Siemens, with our cus-
tomers and other companies. In fiscal 2024, we operated
18 training centers in Germany that offered about 230
trainings focused on technical re- and upskilling for about Women: Men: No/other
12,000 participants (thereof about 11,300 Siemens related), gender entry:
complemented by professional consulting and support. ∅ 32h ∅ 33h ∅ 21h
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 105
5.3 Professional education, and lifelong learning and growth
In fiscal 2024, Siemens invested €240 million in our people’s
training, which corresponds to an average of €744 per
employee. In total, we invested approximately €442 million
in employee education and training.
Further data on professional education, and lifelong learning
and growth at Siemens are disclosed in the indicator table.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
Our people shape Siemens’ learning activities
In our regular Siemens Global Engagement Survey (SGES)1 in
fiscal 2024, we asked our people about the growth mindset
culture and their satisfaction with our learning opportunities.
The feedback of the SGES underlines that our people also
confirm appropriate learning opportunities, resulting in an
employee learning participation rate of 100%.
The survey results also shed light on the fact that our estab-
lished Siemens MyGrowth approach was successfully pro-
moted worldwide and was well-received by our people. Our
investment in learning & growth was recognized with several
awards in fiscal 2024, such as two “Chief Learning Officer
Learning in Practice Awards” in the categories “Strategy” and
“Business Partnership” as well as regional awards in China, in
the United States, and in India. In addition, the World
Economic Forum (WEF) has selected the My Skills approach
as Skills-First Lighthouse.
We will continue to use the survey results to focus on strategic
learning and continuously shaping our portfolio of future-
oriented learning.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 106
5.4 Occupational health and safety management
5.4
Occupational health and safety management
– Resilience and well­being are at the core of Our occupational health and safety governance
occupational health and safety management and policies
– The Healthy & Safe @ Siemens program continues The Environmental Protection, Health Management, and
to be rolled out worldwide Safety (EHS) department governs health and safety at
Siemens. Health and safety management is organized locally,
integrated into each business unit and each regional company,
Management approach and reports directly to the respective business manager.
At Siemens, we are committed to creating a healthy and safe
work environment that supports the well-being and perfor- EHS Officers coordinate the collaboration of health and
mance of our people. As the world of work changes dynam- safety experts across the various fields of action. The main
ically, so do the demands and needs related to health and task of this expert function is to advise managers and teams.
safety. Our occupational health and safety department, The function’s profile has changed significantly in recent
therefore, focuses on maintaining and enhancing the resil- years: While still driving health and safety compliance and
ience, adaptability, and well-being of our people. excellence, this has evolved, to include empowering our
people to adapt safely within dynamically changing require-
We believe that investing in healthy and safe working condi- ments.
tions, and access to health services, is an opportunity to
foster resilience and ensure our people’s creativity and per- Health and safety committees that meet regularly have been
formance. Services like our Employee Assistance Program established in the relevant country organizations and on the
play an important role in helping our people address psycho- local level. Here, management and employee representatives
social and personal concerns through individual counseling. jointly coordinate the specific measures and initiatives
needed for a healthy and safe work environment.
Siemens is dedicated to eliminating and mitigating risks and
harnessing growth opportunities with health and safety Based on our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), we have
management systems and robust internal monitoring and established internal monitoring systems and a company-
controls. wide risk management and control process.
Adapting and redesigning our work systems is an ongoing We anchor our actions in Siemens’ EHS Principles, which
task aimed at empowering our employees to engage and embed our EHS policy. They also include an obligation for all
innovate. Through harnessing digitalization, we have the operating units to demonstrate a management system certi-
opportunity to continuously improve and enhance health fiable to ISO 45001. The effectiveness of these management
and safety assessments and management systems globally. systems is subject to an annual internal review that checks,
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 107
5.4 Occupational health and safety management
among other things, whether processes for risk assessments
and emergency management are implemented in accor- E mployability
dance with internal and external regulations, that inspec-
Progress on DEGREE ambition #13:
tions and reviews have been carried out, significant risks and
Access to Employee Assistance Program:
opportunities have been identified and whether they are
Maintain high level and expand to 100%
reflected in measurable goals and measures. The manage-
globally by 2025
ment system is also externally certified according to market
requirements in the respective operating units. 100% access to the Employee Assistance Program
(EAP) by 2025 – As an integral part of our holistic
Siemens’ suppliers commit to upholding the Siemens Group mental well-being approach, EAP anonymously sup-
Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries ports individual employees in coping with psychosocial
and Business Partners. This Code of Conduct obligates our stress through individual consultations. In 2024, 99%
suppliers to comply with health and safety standards and to of all our colleagues worldwide had access to EAP.
take responsibility for the health and well-being of their This enables us to not only support all our people
employees. worldwide in developing health-promoting behaviors,
but shall also help to raise our general awareness of
Targets psychosocial issues in society as a whole.
One of the DEGREE sustainability framework fields of action OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
is Employability1. This speaks to the ability of our people to
successfully manage continuously changing requirements. Progress
In addition to ongoing professional development, individual FY 20: 82% 99% 100% by 2025
resilience is essential for adapting to challenging life events
Siemens without SHS.
and work situations. With our health and safety ambitions to
maintain and expand access to the Employee Assistance
Program (EAP) and improve the global aggregated accident
rate (LTIFR), we are contributing to the DEGREE field of
action Employability.1
E mployability
We foster the design healthy and safe working conditions by Progress on DEGREE ambition #14:
continuously monitoring and evaluating potential risks and 30% improvement in Siemens’ globally
deriving appropriate measures. By doing so, we aim to aggregated LTIFR by 2025
enable our people to achieve a balanced state of well-being,
better handle stressors, and use their capacities and 30% improvement in the global accident rate (LTIFR)
resources with greater awareness. Moreover, we empower by 2025 (base year: 2020) – compared to the refer-
our people to grow, work more productively, and make ence value of 0.31 in fiscal 2020, we have achieved
important contributions to the company’s success. WORKING an improvement of 19% to date.
AT SIEMENS To achieve this, we provide a broad variety of OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
resilience-focused activities that include training and curated
learning paths via our learning platform. PROFESSIONAL EDU­ Progress
CATION, AND LIFELONG LEARNING AND GROWTH FY 20: 0.31 –19% – 30% by 2025
Siemens without SHS.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 108
5.4 Occupational health and safety management
Actions and results In fiscal 2024, facilitator training was crucial for the effective
The Siemens-wide strategic priority of having empowered implementation of the program. The training focuses on
people guides our actions in the areas of health and safety. enabling and developing the necessary skills for program
Health, safety, resilience, and well-being are intangible elements, ensuring global scalability by training “facilita-
assets for our company. tors.” These facilitators underwent an eight-hour-training
course to master all aspects of the program and practiced
The company-wide Healthy and Safe @ Siemens their roles by guiding local implementation. The creation of
program1 a global “facilitator community” allows sharing experiences
The Global Healthy and Safe @ Siemens (HS @ S) program and provides new learning impulses. In fiscal 2024, 135 new
aims to empower our people to make a difference to health facilitators joined this community.
and safety within the organization. Based on five core prin-
ciples, the program guides our sites to undertake informed For managers and employees, we developed user-friendly
actions to enhance the health, safety, and well-being of our tools to help them engage with the core principles in their
people. This is achieved by engaging with employees about daily work. Our five core principles are:
the current state of health and safety, identifying resilient
strategies for meaningful change, and ensuring that our
people remain central to the program’s success.
We care for our own and each other’s well-being.
The program’s impact is measured through key results that We speak up and take part in making the workplace
address strategic issues relevant to our people’s health, healthier and safer.
safety, and well-being. All locations receive support for
We are inclusive and invite a diverse range of views
implementing the HS @ S program through access to our
on health and safety.
experts, facilitator training, and extensive resources, including
We are engaged in learning and sharing about how
toolboxes.
we can work better, safer, and healthier.
We prepare for and adapt well to changing
Elements of Healthy and Safe @ Siemens1 c ircumstances.
The program is designed to run until 2030. Individual priorities
and objectives may be adjusted over time. Two of the key
ults K
e y results (access to Employee Assistance Program and 30%
K e y r
e s
T o ol b o x alit y c h eck
Resilien
t H S m
a
To
o lb o x
re
s u lts i b
in
m e e
t
p
h
n r
e
o i v n
f
e
i
c
e
m o
ld
r e p n
o
o
f
t r a
a
in t
c
e
t
t d
io
h i
n
e n t
E
g o
m
l o th
p
b
l
e a
o
l D
y
a
a
E c
b
G c
i
R i
l
d
i
E
t
e
y
E
.
n
1
s t u r s a t t a e in ( a L b TI il F it R y ) ) f r h a a m v e e w a o ls r o k
e n
R a
g
e
Principles m
e
n
t
Evaluation
Toolbox
Key
results
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 109
5.4 Occupational health and safety management
Continued demand for occupational health and → Managers and team members engage in ongoing commu-
safety management nication about health, safety, and well-being at work.
Addressing the increasing need to enhance both individual → To mark the annual World Day of Health and Safety at
and organizational resilience is crucial in today’s world. This Work and World Mental Health Day, we have implemented
is essential for the sustainability of our business operations two global campaigns. “Be well+ Work Well”, raising
and also aligns with the sustainability imperative. Over the awareness and create engagement on key health and
last few years, our health and safety management continued safety issues and “Check in for Mental Health”, encouraging
to prove its resilience and reliability throughout diverse open dialogue and action on mental health. Mental
global crises. To support our people’s and organizational health is supported throughout the year by comprehen-
resilience, we have implemented the following key measures sive psychosocial risk management in our EHS Hazards
Identification, Risk Assessment, and Risk Control (HIRARC)
→ We adapted the learning and exchange opportunities to process.
up-coming challenges regarding well-being and resilience. → In addition, Siemens’ regional companies and business
Especially in the L.E.A.P (Lead. Empower. Accelerate. units have developed a variety of initiatives, including
P ractice) leadership learning program resilience and regular “Health Talks,” learning and action weeks, and
well-being is a highly requested key topic. Managers and “Safety Focus Days.”
employees can take advantage of continuously updated
digital learning opportunities for self-determined learning. The Siemens Safety Essentials
In the Siemens Learning World, these offerings are tailored Maintaining health, safety, and well-being is a responsibility
to different target groups and are bundled by topic. that is shared by our management and people. This respon-
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION, AND LIFELONG LEARNING AND GROWTH sibility extends beyond providing workplaces in accordance
→ In fiscal 2024, we continued to drive digital literacy and with all applicable norms, standards, and requirements. To
digital health and safety transformation. This included protect and train our people, we have established the Safety
evolving the Digital Safety Transformation Series for EHS Essentials with core safety behaviors. We expect our people
professionals into a formal Learning Pathway, complete to adhere to those essentials at all times and to place health,
with a Safety innovation Badge, and the addition of new safety, and the environment first in all that they do when
leadership series: Leading Safe and Healthy Work in the working for Siemens.
Digital Age, which is also a formal Learning Pathway. This
new series helps leaders understand their role in responsible In fiscal 2024, the Safety Essentials were developed into 3D
innovation, through people centricity and harnessing animations and visual standards to ensure better adoption,
emerging technologies for the control of risk. engagement and access by employees working in these
→ In fiscal 2024, we strengthened our Contractor Occupa- high-risk activities.
tional Health and Safety Management approach by setting
a new standard, fostering consistency within Siemens
operations on contractor management regarding occupa-
tional health and safety.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 110
5.4 Occupational health and safety management
Safety Essentials
Driver and Hazardous
vehicle safety energy control
Electrical
Safety
Safety
Essentials with core safety
behaviors Working at height/
fall protection
Cranes and
Potential lifting
explosive gas
and vapors
Machine guarding Confined space
signage and entry
safety interlocks
Continuous expansion of health services Predominantly minor incidents
We are continuously expanding our spectrum of health ser- In fiscal 2024, the nature of accidents remained consistent
vices to support the resilience and health of our people at with the previous year, with 81% classified as minor incidents,
work and beyond. In fiscal 2024, 99%1 of our employees had including scratches and abrasions. Notably, finger injuries
access to company medical care. This includes the preven- continued to represent the majority of incidents.
tion and early identification of health problems through
health checks, screenings, and vaccinations. We treat health Most operations exhibited strong safety performance; one
issues seriously and in a timely manner, which includes location faced specific organizational challenges that influ-
leveraging telemedicine consultations or referrals to experts. enced overall global incident rates. In response to this, a
In addition, we facilitate a successful return to work by sup- targeted action plan has been developed to address the root
porting our employees with reintegration measures and causes and contributing factors identified at that location.
ergonomic advice. This plan is part of our ongoing commitment to analyzing
incidents thoroughly and deriving lessons for safety improve-
97%1 of our employees were able to take advantage of a ments.
wide range of health education offerings designed to
strengthen their health literacy. These offerings are delivered
through a holistic approach that covers physical, mental, and
social health and well-being.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 111
5.4 Occupational health and safety management
2 fatalities occurred in fiscal 2024. One contractor and one Joint contribution to our health and safety
employee lost their lives due to electrocution while perform- approach
ing work activities. Each incident and fatality is a source of Our people contribute to our joint health and safety approach
grief for the people concerned as well as their families, every day. There is no one-size-fits-all solution for imple-
friends, and colleagues. Each incident is a renewed call for menting health and safety due to differing requirements,
us to keep improving and ensuring a safe and healthy work tasks, and work situations throughout the company. Recog-
environment for our people and partners. nizing this, we strive to involve our employees in the design
and implementation of our health and safety initiatives and
programs. The active participation of our people enables our
LTIFR Employees and Temporary Workers¹ company-wide, country-specific, and business-specific initia-
Fiscal year tives and programs to thrive. For instance, psychosocial risks
2024 2023 are assessed once a year via the work well-being factors
Employees 0.22 0.23 embedded in the Siemens Global Engagement Survey
Temporary Workers² 0.45 0.30 (SGES)1. At team level, a structured follow-up process is used
Total 0.25 0.24 to assess risks and opportunities, derive measures, and
document outcomes.
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR): number of lost-time cases (LTC) × 200,000 /
work hours; LTC are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work.
2 As a globally operating company, Siemens isn’t always authorized or able to obtain
sensitive information about contract workers‘ health and occupational safety or
complete figures on their work hours. As a result, the Temporary Worker LTIFR for
Siemens includes only temporary workers hired by a temporary employment agency
or under a contract for work and services.
Fatalities (work-related)
Fiscal year
2024 2023
Employees 1 0
Temporary Workers 0 0
Contractors 1 4
Total 2 4
In fiscal 2024, a total of 74 occupational illness cases were
registered.2 The majority of cases were attributed to muscu-
loskeletal disorders.
1 Siemens without SHS.
2 Excluding temporary workers and contractors.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 112
5.5 Corporate citizenship
5.5
Corporate citizenship
– Improving people’s living conditions Our own Corporate Volunteering Standard describes a common
– Giving societies access to knowledge and technologies global corporate citizenship concept and framework which is
– Implemented a variety of corporate volunteer projects supported by an internal volunteering platform being
launched in fiscal 2023.
Management approach Responsibility for selecting and managing non-profit and
Corporate citizenship has been an integral part of Siemens socially impactful activities lies with the local departments or
from the very beginning, with the aim to empower people management teams in each country. This approach helps
and societies. As defined by Werner von Siemens over 175 provide support and create value where it is needed most.
years ago, the company’s mission is to provide technologies Simultaneously, we combine in-depth local knowledge with
that improve quality of life and create lasting value for long-term commitment to overcome social challenges, which
society based on our portfolio, knowledge, and expertise. In vary from region to region.
alignment with this mission, our corporate citizenship
program aims to positively impact society. Along with six other international Siemens foundations and
Siemens Caring Hands e.V., the Siemens Stiftung comple-
The foundation for our approach are the UN’s Sustainable ments our corporate citizenship initiatives.
Development Goals. We identify key topics for our respective WWW.SIEMENS­STIFTUNG.ORG/EN
countries, derive specific actions and illustrate how we are
making a positive contribution to achieving them. This Targets
approach allows Siemens to focus primarily on giving back to As an important element of our sustainability strategy, cor-
the societies what locally matters the most. porate citizenship is embedded in the DEGREE sustainability
framework.1 By strengthening the identification of different
Our governance and policies for corporate target groups ensuring equal opportunities, and offering a
citizenship range of training measures covering all phases of life, we
Siemens believes that it is important to work for the good of contribute to two of the framework’s fields of action: Equity
society beyond our business activities and to invest in chari- and Employability.
table work. This belief is anchored in our Corporate Citizen-
ship Strategy. Our principles serve as a global framework and In every society where we operate, our ambition is to
provide guidance for local sponsorship activities, donations, improve general living and healthcare conditions, enhance
charitable contributions, and memberships. This guidance educational and training opportunities for the labor market,
defines how a variety of potential contributions can be and strengthen social cohesion and cultural identification.
deployed connecting each one to our overarching principles. At the same time, we aim to strengthen Siemens’ reputation
and local footprint, increase understanding of our technologies,
and position our company as an attractive employer, while
also laying the foundation for future innovation.
1 Siemens without SHS.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 113
5.5 Corporate citizenship
Actions and results In addition, by equipping students with control and automa-
tion equipment, Siemens is helping improve educational and
Scale sustainability impact with a shared value employment opportunities. In Argentina, Siemens has
approach established the LOGO! contest focused on our industry
Grounded in our core business and competencies, we have controllers. In the past 20 years, more than 5,000 students
defined three strategic focus areas for our corporate citizen- have participated in the contest.
ship activities: Access to technology, Access to education,
and Sustaining communities. Through a collaboration with SENAI, South America’s largest
group for technological vocational education, Siemens Brazil
In addition to participating in traditional philanthropy, we introduces cutting-edge automation solutions to empower
leverage our technological expertise, capabilities, and products and train more than 40,000 students across Brazil every year
to contribute to society. on Industry 4.0 skills.
Access to technology on the basis of our core Donating refurbished laptops to people in need is another
competencies element in our aspiration to help transform communities for
We want to share our technology knowledge with the inten- a better tomorrow. Digital participation allows people in
tion of making it accessible to people around the world. need to connect and interact with others and at the same
time get access to quality education and the labor market.
This knowledge is especially important in developing coun-
tries, where it can help meet the fundamental needs of local
societies, including energy supply, clean water, and basic
medical care. The objective is to help these societies improve
their overall quality of life and develop new perspectives for
solving problems in the future.
Our Core Areas
Access to Access to Sustaining
technology education communities
With the aid of our core competencies in Knowledge is a resource on which our future Our goals are to establish stable living condi-
digitalization, automation, and electrification, depends. Therefore, improving educational tions, protect values, unleash creativity,
as well as scientific research, we strive to prospects and allowing broad access to improve intercultural understanding, and
give as many people as possible the chance education are critically important challenges contribute to progress.
to use the latest technologies. for all societies everywhere in the world.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 114
5.5 Corporate citizenship
Access to education is crucial for societies Sustaining communities is key for social
around the world cohesion
Our commitment to education encompasses diverse activities Siemens believes that identification with one’s local cultural
and includes STEM-oriented training and promoting excel- heritage is important for social cohesion. With this objective
lence through competition to providing free software in mind, we support cultural and social activities. The
licenses and setting up new institutional education paths, Siemens Arts Program contributes to this objective with a
including dual education and apprenticeship systems. diverse range of projects: for instance, supporting of artistic
works to stimulate a societal dialog about the importance of
The promotion of education can take different forms and shared values and against the polarization of communities.
pursue different objectives: However, the primary objective
remains consistent. We aim to provide enhanced equal We are continuously striving to improve our impact on social
access to future opportunities, and to give young people the cohesion. Major challenges in recent years have included
tools to master future challenges. unforeseen events like the global pandemic, armed conflicts,
and natural disasters like floodings and earthquakes. To help
Coding skills are increasingly relevant to helping people and those affected, we worked with Siemens Caring Hands e.V.
organizations overcome the challenges of digitalization. As to establish a global charity program. In fiscal 2024, we
such, Siemens supports a diverse range of programming- supported measures to mitigate the effects of floodings in
oriented learning programs and projects designed for children. Brazil and Germany, helped people affected by war in
In China the SIE-HOPE program was initiated in response to Ukraine and the Middle East, and supported immediate and
social issues caused by economic and education challenges. mid-term aid measures in Turkey, Syria, Libya, and Morocco.
Supported by 200 volunteers, Siemens provided basic edu-
cation materials, tech classes, and study tours that have Siemens Stiftung: Working for sustainable social
benefitted over 20,000 children in more than 50 schools in development
rural areas. The program was awarded with the Chengdu Siemens Stiftung is an internationally operating foundation
High-Tech Zone CSR award. established by Siemens in 2008 as an independent nonprofit
organization. The foundation focuses on three key themes:
In addition to the programs mentioned above, in fiscal 2024 Access to Essential Services, Connected Societies and Climate
we supported the UN Women’s African Girls Can Code Initia- and Sustainability, and adopts a proactive approach to shaping
tive. 582 African women were empowered with skills in IT, the transformation required by these challenges. By working
coding, cybersecurity, robotics, graphic design, website and with partners in the fields of education, social entrepreneur-
mobile app development and how to remain safe online. ship, and culture, the foundation reinforces collective learning
413 schoolgirls will pursue a STEM education path for future and locally based sustainable structures. The foundation
study and careers in the ICT sector. Within their communities, works with the income from its €390 million endowment as
they serve as STEM role models who can transfer their skills well as additional partner funding in Africa, Europe, and
and also raise awareness about cyber grooming and digital Latin America.
acts of violence where women and girls have become
increasingly at risk online. The students were accompanied Siemens and its employees supported Siemens Stiftung’s
by 250 Siemens female mentors. projects with a number of donation campaigns during the
fiscal year.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 115
5.5 Corporate citizenship
In the sixth edition of the Cents4Sense program, employee
shareholders around the world were able to donate up to
five dividends from their Siemens shares, with the company
matching every donation. Since the program began in 2018,
it has raised almost €1,660,000 for selected Siemens
Stiftung social projects in Africa, Europe, Latin America, and
Germany.
Corporate commitment to strive for the creation
of lasting value for society
In fiscal 2024, we delivered a total community investment of
€48.4 million, and our people spent more than 55,000 h in
volunteer projects as part of their work time.
48.4
€ million
total community investment
To evaluate our activities, we measure the achievement of
the goals on the basis of the individual underlying targets
and against a framework based on the I-O-O-I (input, output,
outcome, impact) assessment method. A database and
approval tool support the operating units in their efforts and
helps to create transparency on a global level. This approach
is accompanied by participation in numerous local and
national working groups and commissions with the aim of
improving the positive impact on society.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 116
Pages 117 – 134
Our sustainability
indicators
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 117
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
SIEMENS AT A GLANCE
Total revenue1 Total Fiscal year Billion € 75.9 74.9 1.3% GRI 201-1, WEF
Net income Total Fiscal year Billion € 9.0 8.5 5.4% GRI 201-1, WEF
Adjusted EBITA Margin for the
Industrial Business Total Fiscal year % 15.5% 15.5% GRI 201-1, WEF
Research and development
R&D expenses1 Total Fiscal year Billion € 6.3 6.1 2.7% WEF
R&D employees (average)1 Total Fiscal year No. (rounded) 51,600 49,500 4.2% WEF
Patents granted1 Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 41,700 43,000 −3.0% WEF
Share of patentfamilies with % of total patent-
SDG-relevance Total Sept. 30th families 47.0% 46.8% 0.5% WEF
GOVERNANCE
Compliance
GRI 205-3,
Total Fiscal year No. 417 416 0.2% GRI 2-27, WEF
GRI 205-3,
Allegations of bribery2 Fiscal year No. 16 21 −23.8% GRI 2-27, WEF
Compliance cases reported Allegations of bribery GRI 205-3,
related to actual year Fiscal year No. 5 12 −58.3% GRI 2-27, WEF
Allegations of bribery
related to previous GRI 205-3,
years Fiscal year No. 11 11 0.0% GRI 2-27, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 200 166 20.5% GRI 205-3, WEF
Warnings Fiscal year No. 108 87 24.1% GRI 205-3, WEF
Disciplinary sanctions
Dismissals Fiscal year No. 80 43 86.0% GRI 205-3, WEF
Others3 Fiscal year No. 12 36 −66.7% GRI 205-3, WEF
BCG training – graduating quote % of invited
current year Total Fiscal year employees 86.4% 67.9% 27.3% GRI 205-2, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. (rounded) 102,000 129,000 −20.9% GRI 205-2, WEF
BCG training – persons graduating EMEA Fiscal year No. (rounded) 58,800 75,900 −22.5% GRI 205-2, WEF
current year Americas Fiscal year No. (rounded) 21,600 22,900 −5.7% GRI 205-2, WEF
Asia, Australia Fiscal year No. (rounded) 22,100 30,500 −27.5% GRI 205-2, WEF
Other specific compliance
trainings – persons graduating
current year Total Fiscal year No. (rounded) 418,000 461,000 −9.3% GRI 205-2, WEF
up to
Integrity Initiative – Projects
Total Sept. 30th No. 85 85 0.0% WEF
Integrity Initiative – Finance budget up to Million US$
provided Total Sept. 30th (rounded) 120 120 0.0% WEF
1 Continuing operations.
2 Does also include allegations of granting benefits (but not taking bribes); time of the alleged misconduct may be in more than one period or may be unspecified.
Therefore it can be included in both categories.
3 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and suspension.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 118
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Sustainable supply chain management
Purchasing Volume (PVO) Total Fiscal year Billion € 35 37 −5.4% GRI 2-6
Number of relevant suppliers
(> €10,000 annual volume) Total Fiscal year No. (rounded) 67,500 67,700 −0.3% GRI 2-6
GRI 308-2, 408-
Total Fiscal year No. 6,878 5,096 35.0% 1, 409-1, 414-2
GRI 308-2, 408-
Corporate responsibility EMEA Fiscal year No. 1,574 1,122 40.3% 1, 409-1, 414-2
self-assessments (CRSA)4 GRI 308-2, 408-
Americas Fiscal year No. 982 767 28.0% 1, 409-1, 414-2
GRI 308-2, 408-
Asia, Australia Fiscal year No. 4,322 3,207 34.8% 1, 409-1, 414-2
Agreed improvement measures out GRI 308-2,
of CRSAs Total Fiscal year No. 8,406 5,493 53.0% 414-2
GRI 308-2, 408-
1, 409-1, 414-
Total Fiscal year No. 430 481 −10.6% 2, WEF
GRI 308-2, 408-
1, 409-1, 414-
EMEA Fiscal year No. 103 97 6.2% 2, WEF
External sustainability audits
GRI 308-2, 408-
1, 409-1, 414-
Americas Fiscal year No. 59 51 15.7% 2, WEF
GRI 308-2, 408-
1, 409-1, 414-
Asia, Australia Fiscal year No. 268 333 −19.5% 2, WEF
Agreed improvement measures out GRI 308-2,
of external sustainability audits5 Total Fiscal year No. 7,488 9,521 −21.4% 414-2, WEF
ENVIRONMENT
Holistic environmental protection
Sites with environmental managment
system ISO 14001 certification Total Sept. 30th No. 185 182 1.6%
Share of sites with environmental
managment system ISO 14001
certification Total Sept. 30th % of reported sites 71% 73% −2.6%
4 To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume > € 50,000 p.a.. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review.
5 Excludes audits conducted by third parties.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 119
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Climate action
Greenhouse gas emissions
1,000 metric tons
Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 347 387 −10.4% GRI 305-1, WEF
CO2 emissions 1,000 metric tons
from gas Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 113 109 2.8% GRI 305-1, WEF
CO2 emissions 1,000 metric tons
from LPG Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 4 5 −13.8% GRI 305-1, WEF
CO2 emissions 1,000 metric tons
from heating oil Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 1 15 −93.5% GRI 305-1, WEF
CO2 emissions 1,000 metric tons
from fleet fuel Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 196 210 −6.6% GRI 305-1, WEF
CO2 emissions 1,000 metric tons
from site fuel Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 2 3 −31.0% GRI 305-1, WEF
CO2 emissions 1,000 metric tons
from coal Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 0 0 GRI 305-1, WEF
CO2 emissions 1,000 metric tons
from technical CO2 Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 0.2 0.2 27.8% GRI 305-1, WEF
Scope 1
CO2e emissions 1,000 metric tons
from wood pellets Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 0.2 0.0 7,618.7% GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
SF6 emissions Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 19 30 −37.3% GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
CH4 emissions Fiscal year of CO2e emissions <0.1 <0.1 GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
N2O emissions Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 0.1 0.0 797.2% GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
HFC emissions Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 12 15 −22.1% GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
PFC emissions Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 0 0 GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
NF3 emissions Fiscal year of CO2e emissions <0.1 <0.1 GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Acetylene emissions Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 0.1 0.1 15.7% GRI 305-1, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Total (market based) Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 94 163 −42.2% GRI 305-2, WEF
Market based from 1,000 metric tons
electricity6 Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 68 142 −52.0% GRI 305-2, WEF
Market based from 1,000 metric tons
district heating Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 26 22 22.5% GRI 305-2, WEF
Scope 2
1,000 metric tons
Total (location based) Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 667 624 6.9% GRI 305-2, WEF
Location based from 1,000 metric tons
electricity6 Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 626 597 5.0% GRI 305-2, WEF
Location based from 1,000 metric tons
district heating Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 41 28 48.6% GRI 305-2, WEF
1,000 metric tons GRI 305-1,
Scope 1+2
Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 441 550 −19.8% 305-2, WEF
6 Including emissions from electricity of fleet EVs for fiscal 2024.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 120
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
metric tons of CO2e
Scope 1+2 intensity emissions per Mio.€
Total Fiscal year revenue 5.6 7.1 −20.8% GRI 305-4, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Scope 1+2 reduction to LY
Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 109 32 241.6% GRI 305-5, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Total (Scope 1+2) Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 562 467 20.3% GRI 305-5, WEF
Gas from renewable 1,000 metric tons
Reduced emissions through energy
sources (Scope 1) Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 9 13 −27.1% GRI 305-5, WEF
from renewable sources
Electricity from
renewable sources 1,000 metric tons
(Scope 2)6 Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 552 454 21.7% GRI 305-5, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Scope 3 Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 416,758 488,976 −14.8% GRI 305-3, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 10,528 10,981 −4.1% GRI 305-3, WEF
Purchased goods and 1,000 metric tons
services Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 8,931 9,2187 −3.1% GRI 305-3, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Capital goods Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 408 416 −1.9% GRI 305-3, WEF
Fuel- and energy- 1,000 metric tons
related activities Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 117 111 5.3% GRI 305-3, WEF
Scope 3 upstream
1,000 metric tons
Waste in operations Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 26 29 −11.5% GRI 305-3, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Transportation Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 717 884 −18.9% GRI 305-3, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Business travel Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 221 2188 1.4% GRI 305-3, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Employee commuting Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 108 105 2.9% GRI 305-3, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 406,230 477,995 −15.0% GRI 305-3, WEF
Use of sold products 1,000 metric tons
Scope 3 downstream
(energy input based) Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 397,520 469,180 −15.3% GRI 305-3, WEF
Investment – Existing 1,000 metric tons
financing9 Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 8,710 8,81510 −1.2% GRI 305-3, WEF
metric tons of CO2e
emissions per
Scope 3 downstream intensity Total Fiscal year Mio. € revenue 5,155 6,142 −16.1% GRI 305-4, WEF
GHG emissions Scope 1+2+3 1,000 metric tons
upstream (“Cradle to gate”) Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 10,969 11,531 −4.9% GRI 305-3, WEF
1,000 metric tons
Biogenic CO2e emissions Total Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 14 15 −6.5%
6 Including emissions from electricity of fleet EVs for fiscal 2024.
7 Change in LY data caused by change in sub-scope mapping.
8 Change in LY data caused by methodological update in line with DEFRA.
9 Emissions from Siemens Financial Services (SFS) investments and Equity investments held.
10 Change in LY data caused by methodological recalculation in line with PCAF and emissions related to Equity Investments.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 121
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Greenhouse gas emissions – Fleet and real estate management
Total number Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 45,000 44,000 2.3%
Battery electric
vehicles (BEV) Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 8,000 4,100 95.1%
Plug-in hybrid electric
vehicles (PHEV) Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 5,000 2,500 100.0%
Electric vehicles (EV) Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 13,000 6,600 97.0%
Siemens fleet Rate of electric
(owned or leased vehicles) vehicles (EV) Sept. 30th % of total fleet 29% 15% 92.6%
Rate of battery
electric vehicles (BEV) Sept. 30th % of total fleet 18% 9% 90.8%
Fleet emissions (part 1,000 metric tons
of Scope 1 emissions) Fiscal year of CO2e emissions 196 210 −6.6% GRI 305-1, WEF
Fleet consumption
(fuel and electricity) Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 2,788 2,89411 −3.7%
Charging points on company
ground for electrical vehicles Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 3,700 2,750 34.5%
Use phase impact at customers
Total Customer Avoided Emissions12 Total Fiscal year Mt CO2e 172.8 207.213 −16.6%
EU Taxonomy
Share eligible revenue Total Fiscal year % of revenue 68.1% 20.3% 236.5%
Share aligned revenue Total Fiscal year % of revenue 25.4% 16.5% 54.1%
Share eligible operational
expenditures Total Fiscal year % of relevant OpEx 74.0% 12.4% 494.6%
Share aligned operational
expenditures Total Fiscal year % of relevant OpEx 32.3% 8.2% 292.8%
Share eligible capital expenditures Total Fiscal year % of relevant CapEx 72.2% 34.5% 109.6%
Share aligned capital expenditures Total Fiscal year % of relevant CapEx 18.2% 12.2% 49.1%
Conservation of Resources
GRI 302-1, SASB
Total Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 9,012 9,115 −1.1% RT-EE-130a.1
Energy Consumption: Share of renewable % of total energy GRI 302-1, SASB
primary & secondary energy energy sources Fiscal year consumption 52.7% 51.1% 3.1% RT-EE-130a.1
Share of grid % of total energy GRI 302-1, SASB
electricity Fiscal year consumption 63.2% 61.3% 3.1% RT-EE-130a.1
Primary & secondary 1,000 gigajoule per GRI 302-1, SASB
energy intensity Total Fiscal year Mio. € revenue 0.114 0.117 −2.4% RT-EE-130a.1
GRI 302-1, SASB
Total Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 2,500 2,513 −0.5% RT-EE-130a.1
Natural gas & liquid GRI 302-1, SASB
gas Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 2,251 2,277 −1.1% RT-EE-130a.1
Energy Consumption: Gas from renewable GRI 302-1, SASB
primary energy sources Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 185 233 −20.7% RT-EE-130a.1
Gas share from GRI 302-1, SASB
renewable sources Fiscal year % of total gas used 8% 10% −19.7% RT-EE-130a.1
Fuel oil, gasoline, GRI 302-1, SASB
diesel Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 40 232 −82.7% RT-EE-130a.1
11 LY data without electricity consumption from EV.
12 Greenhouse gas reductions achieved by our customers through products of the Siemens Portfolio. Calculated over the entire use phase, analogous to Scope 3.11 “Use Phase Emissions”.
13 Change in LY data, caused by recalculation.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 122
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
GRI 302-1, SASB
Total Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 6,512 6,602 −1.4% RT-EE-130a.1
GRI 302-1, SASB
Electricity (total) Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 5,692 5,586 1.9% RT-EE-130a.1
Energy consumption: Electricity GRI 302-1, SASB
secondary energy (renewable sources)14 Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 4,562 4,426 3.1% RT-EE-130a.1
Electricity Share from % of total GRI 302-1, SASB
renewable sources15 Fiscal year electricity used 80% 79% 1.2% RT-EE-130a.1
GRI 302-1, SASB
District heating Fiscal year 1,000 gigajoule 820 1,016 −19.3% RT-EE-130a.1
% revenue weighted
Efficiency in energy Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year to base year (2021) 53% 39% 37.4%
% to base year
Energy reduction Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year (2021) 16.9% 9.1% 86.1%
Waste
Total Fiscal year 1,000 tons 345.5 261.0 32.4% GRI 306-3
Non-hazardous
waste Fiscal year 1,000 tons 208.1 214.416 −3.0% GRI 306-3
Waste
GRI 306-3, SASB
Hazardous waste Fiscal year 1,000 tons 12.8 12.7 0.8% RT-EE-150a.1
Construction waste Fiscal year 1,000 tons 124.6 33.9 267.7% GRI 306-3
Total Fiscal year 1,000 tons 208.1 214.4 −3.0% GRI 306-3
Recycling and Recovery Fiscal year 1,000 tons 198.9 204.1 −2.5% GRI 306-3
Recycling (material) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 175.1 179.6 −2.5% GRI 306-3
Recovery (thermal) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 23.8 24.516 −2.9% GRI 306-3
Non-hazardous waste Landfill and other
disposal Fiscal year 1,000 tons 9.2 10.3 −11.5% GRI 306-3
Landfill Fiscal year 1,000 tons 7.4 8.516 −13.6% GRI 306-3
Other disposal
(thermal/chemical/
physical) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 1.8 1.8 −1.6% GRI 306-3
GRI 306-3, SASB
Total Fiscal year 1,000 tons 12.8 12.7 0.8% RT-EE-150a.1
GRI 306-3, SASB
Recycling and Recovery Fiscal year 1,000 tons 7.8 7.2 8.4% RT-EE-150a.1
GRI 306-3, SASB
Recycling (material) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 5.7 5.6 1.6% RT-EE-150a.1
GRI 306-3, SASB
Hazardous waste Recovery (thermal) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 2.1 1.6 32.3% RT-EE-150a.1
Landfill and other GRI 306-3, SASB
disposal Fiscal year 1,000 tons 4.9 5.4 −9.3% RT-EE-150a.1
GRI 306-3, SASB
Landfill Fiscal year 1,000 tons 0.6 0.9 −31.7% RT-EE-150a.1
Other disposal
(thermal/chemical/ GRI 306-3, SASB
physical) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 4.3 4.5 −4.9% RT-EE-150a.1
Total Fiscal year 1,000 tons 124.6 33.9 267.7% GRI 306-3
Recycling and Recovery Fiscal year 1,000 tons 112.0 27.0 314.2% GRI 306-3
Construction waste
Landfill and other
disposal Fiscal year 1,000 tons 12.6 6.9 83.9% GRI 306-3
14 Based on environmentally relevant sites.
15 Share of electricity from renewable sources of environmentally relevant sites compared to total electricity.
16 Change in LY data caused by subsequent adjustment.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 123
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Total Fiscal year 1,000 tons 220.8 227.1 −2.8% GRI 306-3
Recycling and Recovery Fiscal year 1,000 tons 206.8 211.3 −2.2% GRI 306-4
Recycling (material) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 180.8 185.2 −2.4% GRI 306-3
Recovery (thermal) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 25.9 26.116 −0.7% GRI 306-3
Total Waste
Landfill and other
(w/o construction waste)
disposal Fiscal year 1,000 tons 14.1 15.8 −10.7% GRI 306-3
Landfill Fiscal year 1,000 tons 8.0 9.416 −15.3% GRI 306-3
Other disposal
(thermal/chemical/
physical) Fiscal year 1,000 tons 6.1 6.4 −4.0% GRI 306-3
Total % of total waste
(w/o construction) Fiscal year (w/o construction) 94% 93% 0.6% GRI 306-4
% of total hazardous
Hazardous waste Fiscal year waste 61% 57% 7.5% GRI 306-4
Recycling & Recovery rate
Non-hazardous % of total non-
waste Fiscal year hazardous waste 96% 95%16 0.5% GRI 306-4
% of construction
Construction waste Fiscal year waste 90% 80% 12.7% GRI 306-4
Total % of total waste
Material Recycling rate (w/o construction) Fiscal year (w/o construction) 82% 81% 0.5% GRI 306-4
Water
Total Fiscal year Million cubic meter 12.75 14.26 −10.6% GRI 303-3, WEF
Surfacewater Fiscal year Million cubic meter 2.03 1.10 83.7% GRI 303-3, WEF
Water withdrawal Groundwater Fiscal year Million cubic meter 6.71 9.26 −27.5% GRI 303-3, WEF
3rd party water Fiscal year Million cubic meter 3.96 3.85 2.8% GRI 303-3, WEF
Other sources Fiscal year Million cubic meter 0.05 0.05 21.1% GRI 303-3, WEF
Cubic meter per
Water withdrawal intensity Total Fiscal year Mio. € revenue 161.81 183.39 −11.8% GRI 303-3, WEF
Total Fiscal year Million cubic meter 1.76 1.36 29.9% GRI 303-3, WEF
Water withdrawal in water-stressed
areas % of total with-
Share of withdrawal Fiscal year drawal 14% 10% 45.3% GRI 303-3, WEF
Water consumption Total Fiscal year Million cubic meter 0.67 0.51 32.0% GRI 303-5
Cubic meter per
Water consumption intensity Total Fiscal year Mio. € revenue 8.49 6.52 30.2% GRI 303-5
Total Fiscal year Million cubic meter 0.24 0.07 222.0% GRI 303-5
Water consumption in water-
stressed areas % of total
Consumption share Fiscal year consumption 35% 15% 144.0% GRI 303-5
Total Fiscal year Million cubic meter 11.99 13.56 −11.6% GRI 303-4
Surface water Fiscal year Million cubic meter 2.09 1.03 101.9% GRI 303-4
Water discharge
Groundwater Fiscal year Million cubic meter 6.55 9.20 −28.8% GRI 303-4
3rd party water Fiscal year Million cubic meter 3.35 3.33 0.6% GRI 303-4
16 Change in LY data caused by subsequent adjustment.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 124
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Total Fiscal year Million cubic meter 11.99 13.56 −11.6% GRI 303-4
Sanitary wastewater Fiscal year Million cubic meter 2.84 2.80 1.4% GRI 303-4
Manufacturing
processes Fiscal year Million cubic meter 0.59 0.61 −4.2% GRI 303-4
Other
(including losses) Fiscal year Million cubic meter 0.23 0.24 −2.4% GRI 303-4
Discharge usage Cooling water
discharged as
wastewater Fiscal year Million cubic meter 0.13 0.14 −2.0% GRI 303-4
Chemically unchanged
cooling water
(returned to receiving
water body chemically
unchanged, but
warmed) Fiscal year Million cubic meter 8.23 9.80 −16.1% GRI 303-4
Rate of sites with implemented
water strategy Total Sept. 30th % of sites 97% 96% 0.6% GRI 303-1, WEF
Atmospheric pollutant emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds Total Fiscal year metric tons 237.9 249.7 −4.7% GRI 305-7
metric tons
Ozone-depleting substances Total Fiscal year (R11 equivalent)17 0.022 0.044 −49.8% GRI 305-6
Nitrogen oxides Total Fiscal year metric tons 47.9 53.5 −10.4% GRI 305-7
Sulphur oxides Total Fiscal year metric tons 0.71 1.0816 −34.1% GRI 305-7
Respirable dust Total Fiscal year metric tons 0.03 0.1916 −84.5% GRI 305-7
Additional environmental topics
Environment-related incidents with GRI 307-1, SASB
significant fines Total Fiscal year No. 1 0 RT-EE-150a2
GRI 307-1, SASB
Amount of sigificant fines Total Fiscal year € 30,000 0 RT-EE-150a2
GRI 307-1, SASB
Total Fiscal year No. 15 14 7.1% RT-EE-150a2
Quantity reportable GRI 307-1, SASB
Reportable spills
spills Fiscal year kg 4,859 3,319 46.4% RT-EE-150a2
Quantity recovered GRI 307-1, SASB
spills Fiscal year kg 4,809 2,079 131.4% RT-EE-150a2
Sites with energy management
system ISO 50001 certification Total Sept. 30th No. 43 45 −4.4%
Sites in or adjacent to protected areas Total Sept. 30th No. 94 7718 22.1% WEF
Area of sites in or adjacent to
protected areas Total Sept. 30th Hectare 1,003 1,04718 −4.3% WEF
Product Stewardship
Life Cycle Assessments (LCA)19 Total Sept. 30th No. 1,243 334 272.2%
Environmental Product Declarations
(EPD) Total Sept. 30th No. 2,408 1,540 56.4%
Rate of products by revenue that con-
tain IEC 62474-declarable s ubstances Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year % of total revenue 56% 50% 10.2%
16 Change in LY data caused by subsequent adjustment.
17 R11 equivalent measures ozone depletion potential.
18 Change in LY data caused by expanded circumference.
19 Full-scale.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 125
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
SOCIAL
Working for Siemens20
GRI 2-7, SASB
Siemens employees21 Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 327,000 320,000 2.2% RT-EE_000B
Other internal workforce22 Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 17,800 17,200 3.5% GRI 2-7
External/third party workers23 Germany Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 3,500 4,400 −20.5% GRI 2-8
EMEA Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 179,000 175,000 2.3% GRI 2-7
Americas Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 69,000 66,000 4.5% GRI 2-7
Asia, Australia Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 79,000 78,000 1.3% GRI 2-7
Women Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 90,400 87,600 3.2% GRI 2-7, WEF
Men Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 235,200 230,900 1.9% GRI 2-7, WEF
No/other gender
entry Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 160 140 14.3% GRI 2-7, WEF
Gender n/a Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 1,100 900 22.2% GRI 2-7, WEF
Age group < 30 Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 50,000 50,000 0.0% GRI 2-7
Employee structure24
Age group 30 – 50 Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 194,000 188,000 3.2% GRI 2-7
Age group > 50 Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 82,000 81,000 1.2% GRI 2-7
Age n/a Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 1,100 900 22.2% GRI 2-7
Young workers
below 15 years Sept. 30th % of total employees 0.0% 0.0% GRI 405-1, WEF
Young workers
15 – 17 years Sept. 30th % of total employees 0.0% 0.0% GRI 405-1, WEF
Blue-collar workers Sept. 30th % of total employees 16.7% 16.9% −1.0% WEF
White-collar workers Sept. 30th % of total employees 83.3% 83.1% 0.2% WEF
% of employees in
Germany Sept. 30th Germany 5.6% 5.6% 0.0% GRI 405-1, WEF
% of employees in
Germany – Germany in top
Top management management posi-
positions Sept. 30th tions 0.0% 0.0% GRI 405-1, WEF
Disabled employees25 % of employees in
Germany – Germany in middle
Middle & junior man- & junior manage-
agement positions Sept. 30th ment positions 2.0% 1.9% 3.1% GRI 405-1, WEF
% of employees in
Germany – Germany in
Non-management non-management
positions Sept. 30th positions 5.4% 5.3% 1.6% GRI 405-1, WEF
Employee nationalities26 Total Sept. 30th No. 173 170 1.8% GRI 405-1
20 All employee data in this section are based on headcount.
21 Employee refers to every natural person in an active employment relationship with a fully consolidated Siemens company. Employees are all internal workforce
without apprentices, students, interns and other internal workforce.
22 Other internal workforce/non-employees according to our financial reporting guidelines (e.g. apprentices, students, interns and other internal workforce).
23 External/third party workers who work in our workforce/contingent workers.
24 Employee structure data are only for employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers.
25 Severely Handicapped Employees-rate (SHE) is based on legally defined guidelines and specifications according §§ 154-1+3 SGB IX (German Social Law).
26 Employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 126
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
German Sept. 30th % of total employees 25% 25% −1.7% GRI 405-1
American Sept. 30th % of total employees 14% 14% 0.1% GRI 405-1
Indian Sept. 30th % of total employees 12% 12% 4.5% GRI 405-1
Top nationalities worldwide26 Chinese Sept. 30th % of total employees 9% 10% −4.3% GRI 405-1
British Sept. 30th % of total employees 3% 3% −2.0% GRI 405-1
Czech Sept. 30th % of total employees 3% 3% −4.2% GRI 405-1
Other nationalities Sept. 30th % of total employees 34% 33% 1.5% GRI 405-1
Employment characteristics27
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 309,400 300,100 3.1% GRI 2-7b, WEF
EMEA Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 174,000 170,300 2.2% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Americas Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 67,600 65,400 3.4% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Employees with permanent Asia, Australia Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 67,800 64,400 5.3% GRI 2-7b, WEF
working contract
Women Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 85,000 81,500 4.3% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Men Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 224,200 218,400 2.7% GRI 2-7b, WEF
No/other gender
entry Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 160 140 14.3% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 16,300 18,500 −11.9% GRI 2-7b, WEF
EMEA Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 4,300 4,800 −10.4% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Americas Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 400 400 0.0% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Employees with temporary Asia, Australia Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 11,600 13,400 −13.4% GRI 2-7b, WEF
working contract
Women Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 5,400 6,100 −11.5% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Men Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 10,900 12,500 −12.8% GRI 2-7b, WEF
No/other gender
entry Sept. 30th No. 1 2 −50.0% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Permanent/temporary
working contract Contract type n/a Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 1,100 900 22.2% GRI 2-7b, WEF
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 311,200 304,500 2.2% GRI 2-7
EMEA Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 164,200 161,400 1.7% GRI 2-7
Americas Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 67,600 65,500 3.2% GRI 2-7
Asia, Australia Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 79,300 77,600 2.2% GRI 2-7
Full-time employees in headcount
Women Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 80,700 78,100 3.3% GRI 2-7
Men Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 230,300 226,300 1.8% GRI 2-7
No/other gender
entry Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 150 140 7.1% GRI 2-7
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 14,600 14,100 3.5% GRI 2-7
EMEA Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 14,100 13,600 3.7% GRI 2-7
Americas Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 300 300 0.0% GRI 2-7
Part-time employees in Asia, Australia Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 200 200 0.0% GRI 2-7
headcount
Women Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 9,700 9,500 2.1% GRI 2-7
Men Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 4,900 4,600 6.5% GRI 2-7
No/other gender
entry Sept. 30th No. 5 6 −16.7% GRI 2-7
26 Employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers.
27 Employment characteristics only for employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 127
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Full-/part-time employees in
headcount Full-/part-time n/a Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 1,100 900 22.2% GRI 2-7
Employees in companies with % of total employees
collective bargaining agreements28 Germany Sept. 30th in Germany 93.9% 94.6%29 −0.7% GRI 2-30
Diversity of employees per category and function30
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 34,000 33,000 3.0% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
all management
Women Sept. 30th positions 22.3% 21.6% 3.4% GRI 405-1
Employees in all % of employees in
management positions31 all management
Men Sept. 30th positions 77.7% 78.4% −1.0% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
No/other gender all management
entry Sept. 30th positions 0.0% 0.0% GRI 405-1
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 500 500 0.0% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
top management
Women Sept. 30th positions 32.5% 30.8% 5.4% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
top management
Men Sept. 30th positions 67.5% 69.2% −2.4% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
No/other gender top management
Employees in top
entry Sept. 30th positions 0.0% 0.0% GRI 405-1
management positions32
% of employees in
top management
Age group < 30 Sept. 30th positions 0.0% 0.2% −100.0% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
top management
Age group 30 – 50 Sept. 30th positions 41.7% 42.7% −2.4% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
top management
Age group > 50 Sept. 30th positions 58.3% 57.1% 2.1% GRI 405-1
28 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (e.g., because of their union membership, reference clause in the employment contract) and employees whose working
conditions and terms of employment are influenced by collective bargaining agreements, e.g., because a collective bargaining agreement sets the lower limit for remuneration.
29 Change in LY data caused by new calculation method.
30 Diversity data only for employees, without other internal workforce and without external/third party workers.
31 Employees in all management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members.
32 Employees in top management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 128
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 33,500 32,400 3.4% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
middle & junior
management
Women Sept. 30th positions 22.2% 21.4% 3.6% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
middle & junior
management
Men Sept. 30th positions 77.8% 78.6% −1.0% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
middle & junior
No/other gender management
Employees in middle & junior
entry Sept. 30th positions 0.0% 0.0% GRI 405-1
management positions33
% of employees in
middle & junior
management
Age group < 30 Sept. 30th positions 1.0% 1.1% −9.9% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
middle & junior
management
Age group 30 – 50 Sept. 30th positions 64.7% 64.7% 0.0% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
middle & junior
management
Age group > 50 Sept. 30th positions 34.3% 34.2% 0.2% GRI 405-1
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 291,700 285,700 2.1% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
non-management
Women Sept. 30th positions 28.4% 28.2% 0.7% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
non-management
Men Sept. 30th positions 71.6% 71.8% −0.3% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
No/other gender non-management
Employees in non-management
entry Sept. 30th positions 0.1% 0.0% GRI 405-1
positions
% of employees in
non-management
Age group < 30 Sept. 30th positions 17.0% 17.2% −1.0% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
non-management
Age group 30 – 50 Sept. 30th positions 58.9% 58.5% 0.7% GRI 405-1
% of employees in
non-management
Age group > 50 Sept. 30th positions 24.1% 24.3% −0.9% GRI 405-1
% of total employees
Production Sept. 30th in function 25.4% 25.2% 0.6% GRI 405-1
% of total employees
Sales and marketing Sept. 30th in function 30.2% 29.3% 2.9% GRI 405-1
Women in functions
Research and % of total employees
development Sept. 30th in function 22.7% 22.7% −0.1% GRI 405-1
General % of total employees
administration Sept. 30th in function 48.6% 48.4% 0.5% GRI 405-1
33 Employees in middle & junior management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 129
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
% of total employees
Total Sept. 30th in STEM 19.8% 19.3% 2.8% GRI 405-1
Women in STEM-related positions % of total employees
In management in STEM and
positions34 Sept. 30th management 14.8% 14.3% 3.7% GRI 405-1
% of total employees
in revenue-generat-
Women in revenue-generating In management ing functions and in
functions positions34 Sept. 30th management 16.2% 15.6% 3.9% GRI 405-1
Hirings
Total Fiscal year No. (rounded) 35,700 40,700 −12.3% GRI 401-1, WEF
EMEA Fiscal year No. (rounded) 15,100 17,300 −12.7% GRI 401-1, WEF
Americas Fiscal year No. (rounded) 11,500 12,000 −4.2% GRI 401-1, WEF
Asia, Australia Fiscal year No. (rounded) 9,100 11,400 −20.2% GRI 401-1, WEF
Women Fiscal year No. (rounded) 10,900 12,000 −9.2% GRI 401-1, WEF
Men Fiscal year No. (rounded) 24,400 28,500 −14.4% GRI 401-1, WEF
Hirings No/other gender
entry Fiscal year No. 50 26 92.3% GRI 401-1, WEF
Gender n/a Fiscal year No. 346 200 73.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age group < 30 Fiscal year No. (rounded) 16,000 18,400 −13.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age group 30 – 50 Fiscal year No. (rounded) 17,100 19,600 −12.8% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age group > 50 Fiscal year No. (rounded) 2,300 2,500 −8.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age n/a Fiscal year No. 346 200 73.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
Total Fiscal year of employees 11.0% 12.9% −14.7% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
of employees in
EMEA Fiscal year region 8.5% 10.0% −15.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
of employees in
Americas Fiscal year region 16.9% 18.2% −7.1% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
of employees in
Asia, Australia Fiscal year region 11.6% 14.9% −22.1% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
Women Fiscal year of women 12.2% 14.0% −12.9% GRI 401-1, WEF
Hiring rate35 % of average number
Men Fiscal year of men 10.5% 12.5% −16.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
No/other gender of employees with
entry Fiscal year no/other gender 32.0% 16.4% 95.1% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
of employees in age
Age group < 30 Fiscal year group 32.2% 37.6% −14.4% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
of employees in age
Age group 30 – 50 Fiscal year group 8.9% 10.6% −16.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
of employees in age
Age group > 50 Fiscal year group 2.9% 3.2% −9.4% GRI 401-1, WEF
34 Employees in management positions with disciplinary responsibility, but without Managing Board Members.
35 Hiring rate is defined as the ratio of hirings into Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 130
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Exits
Total Fiscal year No. (rounded) 28,200 30,400 −7.2% GRI 401-1, WEF
EMEA Fiscal year No. (rounded) 11,900 13,000 −8.5% GRI 401-1, WEF
Americas Fiscal year No. (rounded) 9,100 9,200 −1.1% GRI 401-1, WEF
Asia, Australia Fiscal year No. (rounded) 7,200 8,200 −12.2% GRI 401-1, WEF
Women Fiscal year No. (rounded) 8,000 8,500 −5.9% GRI 401-1, WEF
Men Fiscal year No. (rounded) 20,000 21,800 −8.3% GRI 401-1, WEF
Exits36
No/other gender entry Fiscal year No. 17 28 −39.3% GRI 401-1, WEF
Gender n/a Fiscal year No. 154 118 30.5% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age group < 30 Fiscal year No. (rounded) 6,800 8,000 −15.0% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age group 30 – 50 Fiscal year No. (rounded) 13,700 14,900 −8.1% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age group > 50 Fiscal year No. (rounded) 7,600 7,400 2.7% GRI 401-1, WEF
Age n/a Fiscal year No. 154 118 30.5% GRI 401-1, WEF
% of average number
Total Fiscal year of employees 8.7% 9.6% −9.1% GRI 401-1
Voluntary turnover % of average number
rate38 Fiscal year of employees 4.4% 5.3% −17.5% GRI 401-1
Involuntary turnover % of average number
rate39 Fiscal year of employees 4.3% 4.3% 0.0% GRI 401-1
% of average number
of employees in
EMEA Fiscal year region 6.7% 7.5% −10.7% GRI 401-1
% of average number
of employees in
Americas Fiscal year region 13.4% 14.0% −4.3% GRI 401-1
% of average number
of employees in
Asia, Australia Fiscal year region 9.2% 10.7% −14.0% GRI 401-1
Employee turnover rate37 % of average number
Women Fiscal year of women 9.0% 9.9% −9.1% GRI 401-1
% of average number
Men Fiscal year of men 8.6% 9.5% −9.5% GRI 401-1
% of average number
No/other gender of employees with
entry Fiscal year no/other gender entry 10.9% 17.7% −38.4% GRI 401-1
% of average number
of employees in age
Age group < 30 Fiscal year group 13.7% 16.4% −16.5% GRI 401-1
% of average number
of employees in age
Age group 30 – 50 Fiscal year group 7.1% 8.0% −11.3% GRI 401-1
% of average number
of employees in age
Age group > 50 Fiscal year group 9.3% 9.2% 1.1% GRI 401-1
Employee share programs40
Employees participating in the Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year No. (rounded) 107,000 102,000 4.9%
Siemens employee share plans Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year % of total employees 44.2% 43.5% 1.6%
36 Exits are defined as voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal.
37 Turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
38 Voluntary turnover rate is based on employee decision.
39 Involuntary turnover rate is based on other reasons, including dismissals, end of temporary contracts, mutual consent, (early) retirement, death, and other reasons that are not an
employee decision.
40 Based on the number of employees who are eligible to participate in the share plans.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 131
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Professional education and lifelong learning
Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 6,300 5,800 8.6% GRI 2-7
Apprentices and dual students
Germany Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 4,100 3,600 13.9% GRI 2-7
Average number of interns/(doctoral)
students with an educational/learning
target (e.g. mandatory internship) Total Sept. 30th No. (rounded) 1,100 1,100 0.0% GRI 2-7
Spending on employee education
and training Total Fiscal year Million € 441.9 416.3 6.2% GRI 404-2, WEF
Spending on employee training Total Fiscal year Million € 240.5 237.0 1.5% GRI 404-2, WEF
Spending on employee training
per employee Total Fiscal year € 744 753 −1.2% GRI 404-2, WEF
Spending on employee training
per full time employee Total Fiscal year € 754 763 −1.2% GRI 404-2, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 32 30 9.5% GRI 404-1, WEF
Digital learning Fiscal year No. 25 23 9.5% GRI 404-1, WEF
On-site training Fiscal year No. 7 6 9.4% GRI 404-1, WEF
Average training hours per Women Fiscal year No. 32 28 14.2% GRI 404-1, WEF
employee Men Fiscal year No. 33 30 7.9% GRI 404-1, WEF
No/other gender Fiscal year No. 21 18 14.3% GRI 404-1, WEF
Blue-collar workers Fiscal year No. 24 22 7.4% GRI 404-1, WEF
White-collar workers Fiscal year No. 34 31 9.7% GRI 404-1, WEF
Top management
positions Fiscal year No. 39 34 15.2% GRI 404-1, WEF
Middle & junior man-
agement positions Fiscal year No. 39 36 10.7% GRI 404-1, WEF
Non-management
positions Fiscal year No. 32 29 9.2% GRI 404-1, WEF
Average training hours per
Function: Production Fiscal year No. 33 30 8.4% GRI 404-1, WEF
employee category
Function: Sales and
marketing Fiscal year No. 30 27 11.7% GRI 404-1, WEF
Function: Research
and development Fiscal year No. 35 31 10.5% GRI 404-1, WEF
Function: General
administration Fiscal year No. 30 27 10.5% GRI 404-1, WEF
Modules in Siemens digital global
learning platform My Learning World Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year No. (rounded) 178,800 160,70016 11.3% GRI 404-2, WEF
Share of employees with access to
digital learning offerings Total Sept. 30th % of total employees 99.5% 99.6% –0.0% GRI 404-2, WEF
Participation rate in learning offerings Total Fiscal year % of total employees 100% 100% 0.0% GRI 404-2, WEF
Development programs
Siemens Core Learning Paths (CLP) Total Fiscal year No. 30 29 3.4% GRI 404-2, WEF
Siemens Potential Development
Programs (PDP) Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year No. 41 38 7.9% GRI 404-2, WEF
Total community Sept. 30th No. 21 23 −8.7% GRI 404-2, WEF
Xcelerate Your Potential @ Siemens
(XPS) Active participants
(w/o SHS) Sept. 30th No. 4 3 33.3% GRI 404-2, WEF
16 Change in LY data caused by subsequent adjustment.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 132
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Siemens Finance Excellence Total community Sept. 30th No. 68 69 −1.4% GRI 404-2, WEF
Program (FEP) Active participants Sept. 30th No. 11 8 37.5% GRI 404-2, WEF
Total community Sept. 30th No. 978 954 2.5% GRI 404-2, WEF
Siemens Graduate Program (SGP)
Active participants Sept. 30th No. 127 132 −3.8% GRI 404-2, WEF
Occupational health & safety
Total Fiscal year No. 2 4 −50.0% GRI 403-9, WEF
Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 0 0 GRI 403-9, WEF
Fatalities – work related
Employees Fiscal year No. 1 0 GRI 403-9, WEF
Contractors Fiscal year No. 1 4 −75.0% GRI 403-9, WEF
Total42 Fiscal year No. 0.0003 0.0000 GRI 403-9, WEF
Fatality Rate – work related41 Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 0.0000 0.0000 GRI 403-9, WEF
Employees Fiscal year No. 0.0003 0.0000 GRI 403-9, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 50 50 0.0% GRI 403-9, WEF
High-consequence work-related
Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 5 3 66.7% GRI 403-9, WEF
injuries (excluding fatalities)
Employees Fiscal year No. 45 47 −4.3% GRI 403-9, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 0.014 0.015 −3.0% GRI 403-9, WEF
High-consequence injuries rate43 Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 0.015 0.009 63.5% GRI 403-9, WEF
Employees Fiscal year No. 0.014 0.015 −7.3% GRI 403-9, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 1,566 1,466 6.8% GRI 403-9, WEF
Recordable injuries Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 228 199 14.6% GRI 403-9, WEF
Employees Fiscal year No. 1,338 1,267 5.6% GRI 403-9, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 0.45 0.43 3.6% GRI 403-9, WEF
Total recordable injuries rate44 Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 0.70 0.63 12.4% GRI 403-9, WEF
Employees Fiscal year No. 0.42 0.41 2.3% GRI 403-9, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 859 805 6.7% GRI 403-9, WEF
Lost time injuries (LTI) Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 145 96 51.0% GRI 403-9, WEF
Employees Fiscal year No. 714 709 0.7% GRI 403-9, WEF
Total Fiscal year No. 0.25 0.24 3.5% GRI 403-9, WEF
Lost time injury frequency rate
Temporary workers Fiscal year No. 0.45 0.30 48.2% GRI 403-9, WEF
(LTIFR)45
Employees Fiscal year No. 0.22 0.23 −2.5% GRI 403-9, WEF
Number of hours worked Employees Fiscal year No. (thousand) 634,754 614,731 3.3% GRI 403-9
GRI 403-10,
Occupational Illness cases Selected countries Fiscal year No. 74 62 19.4% WEF
Fatalities due to occupational Illness Selected countries Fiscal year No. 7 6 16.7% GRI 403-10
Rate of employees covered with
OHS MS that has been externally % of total number
audited Total Sept. 30th employees 60% 57% 5.1% GRI 403-8
Rate employees covered with OHS % of total number
MS that has been internally audited Total Sept. 30th employees 96% 90%46 6.6% GRI 403-8
% of total number
Rate of access to Medical Care47 Total (w/o SHS) Sept. 30th employees 99% 99% 0.0% GRI 403-6
% of total number
Rate of access to Health Education47 Total (w/o SHS) Sept. 30th employees 97% 94% 3.2%
41 Number of Fatalities x 200,000 / working hours.
42 Fatality Rate w/o contractors.
43 Number of High-consequence injuries x 200,000 / working hours.
44 Number of Recordable injuries x 200,000 / working hours.
45 Number of Lost Time Cases (LTC) x 200,000 / working hours. LTC are accidents that result in at least one lost working day.
46 Change in LY data caused by inclusion of SHS employees in the rate.
47 Scope of HM Reporting: Countries >30 employees as well as affiliated companies >30 employees.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 133
6 Our sustainability indicators
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/– Standards
Corporate Citizenship
Total Fiscal year Million € 29.8 29.2 2.0% GRI 201-1, WEF
Donations
Total Fiscal year % of Net Income 0.3% 0.3% −3.2% GRI 201-1, WEF
Sponsoring Social programs
(e.g. Arts and education) Total Fiscal year Million € 18.6 14.0 32.9% GRI 201-1, WEF
Total Fiscal year Million € 48.4 43.2 12.1% GRI 201-1, WEF
Community investment total
Total Fiscal year % of Net Income 0.5% 0.5% 6.3% GRI 201-1, WEF
Volunteering hours Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year No. (rounded) 55,000 36,000 52.8% GRI 201-1, WEF
DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK – KPI OVERVIEW (FIGURES WITHOUT SIEMENS HEALTHINEERS)
Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Fiscal year/
(KPIs) September 30 Unit FY 2024 FY 2023 +/–
Decarbonisation
Scope 1+2: Emission reduction to % to base year
base year Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year (2019) −60% −50% 20.5%
Supply Chain: Emission reduction to % to base year
base year Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year (2020) −2.1% −1.3%48 59.4%
Ethics
Quota of participants of Business
conduct guideline training up to % of total number
(since FY 23) Total (w/o SHS) Sept. 30th of employees 91.0% 69.0% 31.9%
Governance
Resource efficiency
Quota of product families with % of relevant
Robust Eco Design Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year revenue49 54% 41%50 31.0%
Purchase Quota – % of relevant
Secondary material for metals51 Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year purchase volume 35% 35% −1.8%
Purchase Quota – % of relevant
Secondary material for resins52 Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year purchase volume 1% < 1%
Quota of waste-to-landfill reduction % to base year
to base year (w/o construction waste) Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year (2021) −30% −17%16 79.5%
Equity
Share of female employees at top % of employees in
management Total (w/o SHS) Sept. 30th top management 32.6% 31.1% 4.8%
Share of employees with access to % of total number
Siemens employee share plans53 Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year of employees 99.96% 99.89% 0.1%
Employability
Digital learning hours per employee Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year No. 27 23 17.4%
Level of access to Employee % of total number
Assistance Program54 Total (w/o SHS) Sept. 30th of employees 99% 96% 3.1%
Improvement in global LTIFR55 to % to base year
base year Total (w/o SHS) Fiscal year (2020) −19% −26% 26.7%
16 Change in LY data caused by subsequent adjustment.
48 Change in LY data caused by new calculation method (business travel).
49 In fiscal year 2024 the coverage of relevant revenue was 69% of total revenue Siemens w/o SHS.
50 Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis based on an adjusted portfolio scope.
51 Calculation is based on literature values.
52 Product specifications for the use of secondary plastics are in development.
53 Where legally possible and reasonable.
54 Scope of HM Reporting: Countries >30 employees as well as affiliated companies >30 employees.
55 Number of lost time cases (LTC) x 200,000 / working hours. LTC are accidents that result in at least one lost working day.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 134
Pages 135 – 169
Annex
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 135
7.1 Reporting methodology
7.1
Reporting methodology
Sustainability is a fundamental principle that guides our Nonetheless, they are consistent with the DEGREE sustain-
every action. The Sustainability Report 2024 (below, the ability framework and the global nonfinancial programs and
“Report”) supplements our financial reporting for fiscal initiatives at Siemens.
2024. The present chapter describes the key elements of our
sustainability reporting. In this Report, the Innomotics busi- Data collection
ness is part of the reporting scope, unless explicitly stated Given the size and worldwide presence of Siemens, data
otherwise. collection poses a logistical challenge. Moreover, our compa-
nies throughout the world need to comply with national
Reporting approach regulations on the compilation and definition of their key
The Report explains the strategy, organization, initiatives, figures, which means that the generated data is not always
programs, management approach, targets, actions, and comparable. Where applicable, we point out any significant
results of sustainable corporate governance. It supplements limitations in the information presented in the Report.
the financial reporting provided in the current Annual
Report. It also documents the progress we have made in The data presented in this Report is collected via various
implementing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global internal reporting processes, which for the most part are
Compact, the United Nations CEO Water Mandate, and the different from those used to collect the financial information
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related presented in our consolidated financial statements. In par-
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). ticular, the internal reporting systems used to collect the
information presented in this Report may be subject to less
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Standards stringent internal requirements for documentation, data
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 2021) and the generation, and auditing, including with respect to the IT
anti-corruption reporting recommendations of the Global systems and controls employed. We reserve the right to
Compact from Transparency International. Our reporting on change the internal guidelines applicable to the collection of
human rights activities is based on the UN Guiding Principles the data published in this Report without prior notice. Due to
(UN GP) Reporting Framework and the corresponding guide- rounding, some of the numbers presented in this Report may
lines. not add up precisely to the totals presented, and percentages
may not precisely reflect the absolute figures to which they
Reporting period and Report boundaries refer.
This Report refers to the Siemens 2024 fiscal year (October 1,
2023, to September 30, 2024). Any exceptions are indicated
as such. In general, the Report covers all our fully consoli-
dated companies. As a general rule, minority interests are
not included in the Report. Unless otherwise noted, the key
indicators and information reported here relate to the com-
pany’s ongoing operations. Some management approaches
do not cover all Siemens entities or parts of the organization.
Some parts of the Siemens organization may have intro-
duced specific programs or initiatives that differ from the
general approaches described in this Report.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 136
7.1 Reporting methodology
Methodology, environmental reporting and tion sector, Siemens Mobility considers emissions factors
collection of environmental data including all phases of the energy sources life cycle, from the
Within our environmental information system, in fiscal 2024 extraction of raw materials to their use (well-to-wheel (WtW)).
we evaluated 261 reports from locations in all relevant
countries where defined threshold values for environmental In fiscal 2024, we made various adjustments to our calcula-
management parameters like energy usage, resource usage, tions of Scope 3 Downstream to increase the quality and
water consumption, and emissions were exceeded. We use reliability of our emissions reporting.
absolute values – for instance, energy consumption in giga-
joules – to measure and monitor our environmental impacts. For transparency in Scope 3 Category 11 Use of Sold Prod-
We report environmental data for ongoing operations. ucts, alongside the emissions calculated using the energy
input approach, we also show the emissions associated with
If primary data is not available by the reporting period in energy losses for relevant portfolio e.g. motors. Showing the
Septem ber, estimations are permissible data and must be energy losses emissions supports improved comparability
based on measured data or reliable and traceable modeling across companies. Siemens retains the more conservative
assumptions. energy input approach as its lead indicator for its emissions
associated with Use of Sold Products.
For sites below the threshold of obligatory reporting in our
environmental information system, values have been In fiscal 2024, we sold our Innomotics business, and the
extrapolated where applicable (e.g., waste, energy con- transaction closed October 1, 2024. Innomotics is a leading
sumption, or emissions) to represent 100% coverage in supplier of motor and large-drive systems. We show in
order to reflect total consumption. For other calculation, the chapter “Climate action” the contribution of Innomotics to
extrapolation is performed on the basis of the area not cov- Scope 3 Category 11 Use of Sold Products emissions, in view
ered in the reporting system. The difference represents a of the sale of this business and its significant contribution to
share of area in m2 of approximately 20% for the reporting Siemens Scope 3 emissions.
period. We monitor our environmental impacts at all envi-
ronmentally relevant office and production sites on the basis Use of sold product emissions do not include emissions from
of environmental data collected on a quarterly basis. the use of sold software (where this is not already addressed
in Scope 1, 2 or 3.1) as there is no common market practice
Scope 3 supply chain emissions around calculation methodologies yet.
Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain have been calcu-
lated using a cross-regional, macroeconomic input-output For Scope 3 Category 15 Investments, we have aligned our
model based on our volume of purchased goods and services. accounting approach for project investments to the PCAF
Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the
Scope 3 downstream emissions Financial Industry. Equity investments are also included and
With regard to Scope 3 downstream emissions, we calculated accounted for based on the GHG Protocol.
these emissions in fiscal 2024 based on the Greenhouse Gas
(GHG) Protocol, and therefore accounted for and reported the We include all Kyoto gases in our emissions calculations:
emissions from the use of Siemens offerings sold in the carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O),
reporting year over their entire use phase duration (Cate- hydrofluoro carbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and
gory 11), and relevant projects invested in during the report- sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). To assess the relevance of GHG
ing year as well as equity investments (Category 15). The emissions other than CO2, they are converted into metric tons
source of the emissions factors applied in the 2024 reporting of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). This number is based on the global
year is the “IEA Emissions Factors 2023” published by the warming potential over 100 years of each of the greenhouse
International Energy Agency. For instance, the global CO2e gases compared to the global warming potential of CO2.
emissions factor used for electricity generation is 466 g CO2e/
kWh. If regional calculations are available, local emissions We follow the financial control approach to consolidate the
factors should be used. As recommended for the transporta- reporting of emissions.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 137
7.1 Reporting methodology
Customer Avoided Emissions Independent assurance
The description of our methodology for calculating Our sustainability reporting is subject to high quality stan-
“Customer Avoided Emissions” can be found in the Annex in dards. Therefore, as in previous years, we commissioned an
REPORTING PRINCIPLES FOR CUSTOMER AVOIDED EMISSIONS. independent audit firm to conduct a limited assurance of our
Sustainability Report 2024. The results of the assurance
Methodology, headcount reporting, and conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts-
collection of employee data prüfungsgesellschaft are presented in the chapter titled
Within our global HR reporting, we report headcount num- “Independent auditor’s limited assurance report.”
bers according to our Siemens Corporate Financial Reporting
Guidelines. These Guidelines are embedded in our global HR Editor’s note
reporting standards and HR reporting landscape system An effort has been made to use gender-neutral language
(HRL), which is the basis for employee reporting figures. throughout. Nevertheless, if on occasion the masculine form
“Employee” refers to every natural person in an active is used for easier readability, it stands for people of all genders.
employment relationship with a fully consolidated Siemens
company. Employees are all internal workforce without
apprentices, students, interns, and other internal workforce.
All employee figures in the Social chapters refer to head-
count. For some companies no employee structure data are
available due to data delivery by SGATE (Siemens Global
Adding Tool for Employees), which is a web-based tool for
collecting, storing, and processing headcount figures for
companies that are consolidated but for a short time not
able to deliver employee structure data. This can lead to
minor deviations in breakdown data.
Employee turnover is defined as the ratio of voluntary and
involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the
average number of employees. Voluntary turnover rate is
based on employee decision, whereas Involuntary turnover
rate is based on other reasons, including dismissals, end of
temporary contract, mutual consent, (early) retirement,
death, and other reasons that are not the employee’s deci-
sion. Hiring rate is defined as the ratio of hirings into the
Siemens group during the fiscal year to the average number
of employees. The headcount numbers and rates for employees
in management positions include all managers with disci-
plinary responsibility, but without Management Board
Members (MBM).
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 138
7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions
7.2
Reporting principles for Customer Avoided
Emissions
Siemens has reported avoided emissions since 2006, for- The term Customer Avoided Emissions refers to the “positive”
merly known as so-called abatement emissions under the impact determined by comparing the GHG emissions of two
Environmental Portfolio and since 2021 as Customer Avoided different solutions or scenarios. Customer Avoided Emissions
Emissions (CAE). In addition to our annual sustainability are emissions that are saved or avoided during the customer
reporting, we plan to publish a more comprehensive meth- use phase from the use of our products, systems, solutions,
odology paper detailing our Customer Avoided Emissions and services or investments made compared to a counter-
calculation approach in 2025. factual.
Customer Avoided Emissions and Scope 3 To date, there is no established external framework or stan-
downstream reporting guideline dard defining the reporting of Customer Avoided Emissions.
Siemens has developed its own reporting guideline called The Siemens defined approach is based on principles derived
“Scope 3 Downstream and Customer Avoided Emissions from the GHG Scope 3 downstream reporting according to
Reporting” which sets out basic requirements and guidelines the GHG Protocol, as well as criteria defined in the World
for calculating and reporting emissions associated with the Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
use of products, systems, solutions, and services sold and guidance on avoided emissions.
investments made by Siemens. It covers:
Calculation principles
→ Scope 3 downstream GHG emissions resulting from the The calculation principles are based on the standards “A
useof sold products (Category 11) and investments Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – Revised
(Category 15) according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project Accounting,” both
Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard (GHG Protocol Standard) published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. These
→ Customer Avoided Emissions (according to Siemens’ own principles are relevance, completeness, consistency, trans-
methodology) parency, accuracy, and conservativeness.
The following summary will focus on the second part, the All Siemens businesses and SFS are required to apply these
calculation and reporting of Customer Avoided Emissions. principles to ensure overall data integrity and credibility as
well as a true and fair presentation of Siemens Customer
Customer Avoided Emissions Avoided Emissions-related information.
A company’s carbon footprint, as captured in Scope 1, 2 and
3 GHG accounting, does not measure the company’s contri- Accounting boundaries
bution to decarbonization by its partners and customers. The accounting boundaries for data on Customer Avoided
Although the carbon footprint can indeed reflect emissions Emissions only encompass the phase during which a product,
reductions resulting from the use of its solutions (Scope 3 system, solution, or service is used by the customer or the
downstream emissions) over time, it does not indicate term of an investment. Therefore, GHG emissions occurring
whether these solutions have enabled the customer to during other phases of the lifecycle, such as in the supply
achieve lower emissions compared to an alternative solution chain, production, or end-of-life disposal, shall not be
(counterfactual). Quantifying the decarbonization impact accounted for within Customer Avoided Emissions.
resulting from the use of the company’s products and solu-
tions (Customer Avoided Emissions) helps convey a full pic-
ture of the company’s contribution to global decarbonization.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 139
7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions
Accounting for Customer Avoided Emissions → Objections and concerns of external stakeholders: If
All Siemens businesses and SFS are required to report the stakeholders express concerns or objections, internal or
Customer Avoided Emissions from the use of Siemens offer- external information is evaluated and appropriate
ings sold or investments made in the reporting year over the measures are taken.
entire use phase duration. → Adverse effects: If evidence comes to Siemens’ attention
that a Siemens product, system, solution, service, or
Customer Avoided Emissions are either referred to: investment causes considerably greater adverse environ-
mental impacts elsewhere in the offering’s lifecycle,
→ Product-level avoided emissions, i.e., generated by the Customer Avoided Emissions are not calculated.
product itself at the customer (e.g. sale of a more energy- → In line with the WBCSD guidance, Siemens businesses and
efficient motor) or SFS shall not account for Customer Avoided Emissions if
→ System-level avoided emissions, not generated inherently the offering is directly applied to activities involving
by the product itself in the customer sphere, but enabled exploration, extraction, mining and/or production, distribu-
through a larger system (e.g. sale of rolling stocks, substi- tion and sales of fossil fuels i.e., oil, natural gas and coal.
tuting car or airplane travel)
Greenhouse gases considered
Eligibility criteria for Recognition of Customer Avoided The accounting for Customer Avoided Emissions includes,
Emissions: where appropriate, all six greenhouse gases defined in the
Customer Avoided Emissions can be accounted for if the Kyoto Protocol (so-called “Kyoto gases”), including: carbon
product, system, solution, service, or investment has a direct dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur
and significant decarbonization impact falling under the hexafluoride (SF6), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and perfluoro-
following three potential archetypes: carbons (PFCs).
1. “End-use solutions” with direct and significant decarbon- To assess the relevance of GHG emissions other than CO2,
ization impacts they are converted into metric tons of CO2-equivalents
(CO2e). This number is based on the global warming poten-
2. Intermediary solutions with direct and significant decar- tial over 100 years of the respective greenhouse gas
bonization impacts compared to the global warming potential of CO2.
3. Solutions that directly and significantly improve or optimize Counterfactual methodology
systems The counterfactual methodology defined in the guideline
refers to the comparison of a Siemens product, system,
The term “significant” relates to how material the effect of solution, service, or investment with a counterfactual situa-
avoided emissions is i.e., how much the Siemens offering tion in the absence of the Siemens offering. To enable
contributes to non-marginal emissions reduction for our credibility and avoid overstating the positive effect, the
customers. counterfactual has to represent as best as possible the situa-
tion that would have occurred without the Siemens solution.
Exclusion criteria:
Before calculating Customer Avoided Emissions, all Siemens → Before­and­after comparison: Refers to the difference
products, systems, solutions, services, and investments need between an initial customer situation and the situation
to be checked against the following exclusion criteria: after the implementation of a Siemens offering intended
to improve or substitute certain characteristics. This
→ Field of application: No Customer Avoided Emissions may comparison can be applied, for instance, to cases in which
be accounted for and reported in the military use or a Siemens solution optimizes a building’s energy con-
nuclear power application fields. sumption.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 140
7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions
→ Direct comparison with a reference technology: In line with the WBCSD guidance, we switched in fiscal 2024
Refers to the difference between the Siemens offering to using the more conservative approach of emissions factors
and a comparable other single technology or predecessor that consider dynamic effects over the use phase duration of
with a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, our products and solutions, such as forecasted electricity
for instance, to new product generations or the electrifi- decarbonization. Especially for offerings with a long use
cation of fossil fuel technologies. phase, this might be subject to a high degree of uncertainty.
→ Comparison with the installed base: Refers to the The source of the emission factors applied for calculating
difference between the Siemens offering and an average Customer Avoided Emissions is S&P Green Rules 2024.
market solution used for the same or a similar purpose
(market standard). This comparison can be applied, for Regional or country specific calculations are performed if the
instance, to renewable energy projects by drawing a respective offering data and emission factors are available.
comparison with the average global greenhouse gas
emission factor for electricity generation. Offerings with no material Customer Avoided Emissions
impact, or in cases where the calculation cannot be reliably
Calculation determined when applying reasonable cost-benefit consid-
Siemens businesses and SFS are required, where applicable, erations, are not considered in the accounting.
to report Customer Avoided Emissions associated with all
products, systems, solutions, services, or investments that Distinction between bottom­up and top­down
lead to the avoidance of emissions in the customer use calculations
phase. The amount of Customer Avoided Emissions is the Customer Avoided Emissions can be calculated either
difference between the GHG emissions of the given Siemens bottom-up from product-specific information, or top-down
offering and the counterfactual defined above. from the global impact of a specific offering, of which
Siemens claims only a specific share. Using bottom-up vs.
Technical parameters and assumptions top-down approaches depends on availability of data. Bot-
The calculation of Customer Avoided Emissions is based on tom-up calculations represent the more robust calculation
different parameters in order to best reflect the amount of approach and should be prioritized where possible. Top-
avoided emissions during the entire use phase of a Siemens down methods are applied only if bottom-up is not feasible,
offering, similar to the calculation of downstream Scope 3 but eligibility criteria for claiming Customer Avoided Emis-
emissions. The calculation parameters (e.g., emission factors sions are met.
or expected use phase duration) should be reviewed and
updated regularly to reflect the most current status of these Our accounting principle “Completeness” only covers
numbers. The calculation approach should be consistent bottom-up calculations and top-down calculations remain
with the calculation of downstream Scope 3 emissions voluntary and can be applied only where feasible.
(Categories 11 and 15 related to use phase emissions and
emissions from SFS project financing). When combining bottom-up and top-down calculations,
double-counting within the Siemens portfolio needs to be
In some cases, the actual parameters, like the product’s avoided. Our guideline requires checking for double-count-
operating profile by the customer, cannot be reliably deter- ing risks when applying top-down calculations in areas that
mined. Under these circumstances, conservative estimates potentially overlap with the scope of existing bottom-up
should be applied and documented appropriately. In general, calculations. Both calculation approaches shall apply the
the emissions of the counterfactual and the Siemens offering same accounting principles as set out in our internal guide-
should include the potential development of the situation line.
over time.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 141
7.2 Reporting principles for Customer Avoided Emissions
Value chain attribution Recalculation
In many cases, Customer Avoided Emissions arise from To enable consistency, especially over time, Siemens busi-
efforts by multiple partners and the effects of their products nesses and SFS recalculate the Customer Avoided Emissions
along the value chain. In line with the described eligibility in accordance with the guideline. Generally, Siemens busi-
criteria and in accordance with the WBCSD guidance, where nesses and SFS shall consider and/or perform recalculations
the use case of the product is known, Siemens businesses when one or more triggering events occur that lead to rele-
and SFS are required to justify why 100% of the emissions vant changes in emissions data. Events that lead to relevant
reduction is directly attributable to their offering and that changes typically include portfolio changes, M&A activities,
the expected impact is significant. methodological changes, changes in parameters or assump-
tions as well as corrections. In case recalculations must be
However, in cases of multi-purpose (intermediate) products performed, it needs to be determined if the recalculation
where information about the specific end-use or final appli- applies for the reporting and previous year only or if applica-
cation is diverse or lacking, value chain attribution (the dis- ble, if the baseline (base year for certain targets) has to be
tribution of Customer Avoided Emissions generated by the adjusted as well.
end-use product across value-chain partners) can be applied.
On the basis of an attribution methodology, only a portion,
i.e. less than 100%, of the total emissions reduction, is
attributed to a Siemens offering.
Siemens businesses and SFS document the applied attribution
methodology and reasoning for using underlying attribution
factors.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 142
7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies
7.3
Our contribution to sustainable development
of societies
– Effective influence in achieving UN’s Sustainable The United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals
Development Goals (SDGs) (SDGs) and their 169 targets serve as a compass for the
– SDGs included in our DEGREE sustainability change efforts that must be made by governments, busi-
f ramework nesses, cities, and civil society as a whole if we are to achieve
a more sustainable future. The SDGs and their associated
targets address the most important economic, social, envi-
ronmental, and governance-related challenges of our times,
and therefore they help stimulate transformational change.
At Siemens we have adopted them as values, and so the
SDGs also influence us as a company.
Allocation of the SDG goals to Siemens sustainability framework DEGREE
Decarbonization
y
pl o y a
bilit
E t h ic
s
m
E
G
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e
E
q
u
it
y
Resource ef
ciency
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 143
7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies
They are firmly associated with our DEGREE sustainability How we contribute to achieving the SDGs
framework, which guides our sustainability management, and From a global perspective, these are the SDGs where Siemens
they also describe the details of our sustainability ambitions. has a high or medium impact:
The long-term priorities for Siemens as part of our sustain- Goal 3 – Ensure healthy lives and promote
able development agenda are clear: We want to apply our well-being for all at all ages
engineering expertise and our approach to connect the real
and digital worlds, improve people’s quality of life, and pro- We make a significant impact on SDG 3 with our business
tect the planet. In particular, this is supported by our corpo- portfolio, especially through SHS and the production tech-
rate purpose of “We create technology to transform the nologies we provide to pharmaceutical companies. In addi-
everyday, for everyone.” The UN’s 17 SDGs have therefore tion to the impact of our portfolio, we also care about the
become fixtures in our everyday business. Siemens deploys health and safety of our people and contract workers. Sepa-
its technology portfolio to support the public and private rately from SHS, Siemens sets ambitious goals for access to
sectors in the digital transformation of industry, building and Employee Assistance Programs and for reducing employee
network infrastructures, mobility, and healthcare and can accident rates (Lost time injury frequency rate – LTIFR). We
offer extensive business opportunities for value-enhancing also participate in health-related community engagement
growth. At the same time, we provide cost-effective, innovative activities like cancer awareness campaigns and mobile clin-
solutions for the transition to carbon neutrality. These tech- ics.
nologies support customers in achieving their objectives
while consuming fewer resources. To varying extents, Goal 4 – Ensure inclusive and equitable quality
Siemens helps achieve most of the SDGs in the UN’s Agenda education and promote lifelong learning oppor-
2030 in four important ways: tunities for all
→ through our products and solutions, Lifelong learning is a basic prerequisite for ensuring employ-
→ by doing business responsibly, ability for our people and in the job market in general. We
→ through our expertise and thought leadership, and offer access to education in multiple ways, including learning
→ through our corporate citizenship activities and and education opportunities for all our people, as well as
c ommunity engagement. vocational and more advanced training through partnerships
with schools and universities. Education for our customers
and suppliers is likewise high on our agenda. We also aim to
inspire young people to pursue careers in STEM fields
(science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) with
our numerous corporate citizenship activities around the
world.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 144
7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies
Goal 5 – Achieve gender equality and empower Goal 8 – Promote sustained, inclusive and sus-
all women and girls tainable economic growth, full and productive
employment, and decent work for all
We firmly believe that promoting diversity in the workforce
serves the interests of both society and Siemens itself. Diver- Siemens is committed globally to the New Normal Working
sity reinforces our innovative strength, unleashes employee Model. Our aim with the new normal is for all our people
potential, and directly contributes to our business success. around the world to be able to work on a mobile basis two to
Our human resources management also supports a transfor- three days a week, wherever feasible and reasonable. Mobile
mation in top management, where there is room for working has many advantages for the individual and also for
improvement. We are recruiting more women for top mana- the company: for instance, by ensuring that we are prepared
gerial positions and are including more women in network- to respond flexibly during future crises. Our worldwide
ing activities, trainings, and mentoring programs. Without business operations and our position as a thought leader
SHS, Siemens aims to have 30% of its top management mean that in many countries we contribute toward the
positions worldwide filled by women by 2025. growth of the gross domestic product (GDP). We are commit-
ted to offering attractive jobs and facilitating employment,
Goal 7 – Ensure access to affordable, reliable, and we are encouraging the decoupling of economic growth
sustainable, and modern energy for all from energy consumption.
Our business portfolio covers the entire spectrum of applica- Goal 9 – Build resilient infrastructure, promote
tions for modern smart grids and energy distribution systems. inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and
The rapid expansion of decentralized energy structures foster innovation
powered by Siemens technology creates a more diverse
energy mix and improves the security of the energy supply. As a global technology company and innovation leader in
The Internet of Things and data-based technologies foster electrification, automation, and digitalization, Siemens
energy intelligence and pave the way toward a sustainable supports sustainable industrialization. With our engineering
energy landscape. Our technologies facilitate access to expertise, our knowledge of numerous sectors, and our
clean, reliable, low-carbon energy. digital technology, we help our business partners across the
entire value chain, from design to production, and from
operations to maintenance. We believe in international
partnerships as the key to innovation. A large percentage of
our customers and suppliers are small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs). We have officially adopted sustainability
as an additional strategic imperative for our investment
decisions.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 145
7.3 Our contribution to sustainable development of societies
Goal 11 – Make cities and human settlements Goal 16 – Promote peaceful and inclusive societies
inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable for sustainable development, provide access to
justice for all, and build effective, accountable,
Siemens is a trusted partner for municipal governments and and inclusive institutions at all levels
offers solutions across all infrastructure domains to make
cities more efficient, sustainable, and resilient – for instance, We anchor integrity and compliance throughout our com-
with intelligent transportation solutions, efficient and safe pany and advance the Siemens Integrity Initiative with
buildings, and smart-city initiatives that leverage the power external stakeholders. By these means and through our
of digitalization. activities with other players, we support fair competition and
ensure our company’s long-term success. Siemens is com-
Goal 12 – Ensure sustainable consumption and mitted to incorporating the requirements of the United
production patterns Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Human Rights Declara-
tion, and all other relevant regulations into our supply chain
Siemens is committed to using resources responsibly and and to promoting their principles through our work with
recognizes that the circular economy offers highly beneficial external organizations and institutions.
opportunities for business, the environment, and society. By
the end of this decade we want to evolve even more toward Goal 17 – Strengthen the means of implementa-
the circular economy, for instance by increasing the percent- tion and revitalize the Global Partnership for
age of metals and plastics we procure as secondary materi- Sustainable Development
als. We also aim to reduce our amount of landfill waste.
Siemens has worldwide strategic initiatives for the design As a global company and an advocate of free trade, we
phase to the end of lifecycle of its products and operations, believe that partnerships are a key to sustainable develop-
and is committed to robust, ecologically friendly design. We ment and to our company’s success. We also recognize the
apply disruptive technologies and innovative business mod- importance of digitalization, project financing, and pub-
els to make an active contribution to the circular economy. lic-private partnerships for sustainable development. In all of
these areas, we are partnering with international organiza-
Goal 13 – Take urgent action to combat climate tions, business organizations, think tanks, nongovernmental
change and its impacts organizations (NGOs), and academia, including the UNGC,
World Economic Forum (WEF), econsense, Transparency
Our portfolio helps our customers reduce their emissions International, and numerous universities.
and thereby achieve their decarbonization goals. Siemens
has a science-based net-zero target validated by the SBTi. We
are committed to reducing emissions from Siemens’ opera-
tions by 90% by fiscal 2030 and to reduce absolute Scope 3
emissions by 30% by fiscal 2030 from a fiscal 2019 baseline.
With its commitment to science-based targets, Siemens
supports the goal of the Paris Climate Agreement to limit
climate change to 1.5°C.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 146
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
7.4
Task Force on Climate­Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
The G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate- and strategy implementation. The Supervisory Board’s
Related Financial Disclosure provides a uniform framework oversight and advisory activities encompass sustainability-
that companies can voluntarily use to report their climate- related topics in the environment, social and governance
related risks and opportunities and disclose the correspond- area. The Managing Board reports regularly to the Supervi-
ing information to investors, lenders, insurers, and other sory Board on Siemens’ company-wide sustainability strategy
stakeholders. This Annex provides an overview of Siemens’ and on the status of this strategy’s implementation. In
activities based on these recommendations and offers refer- addition, the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee
ences to other sources of relevant information. also concern themselves with sustainability reporting and
governance.
Our governance in the area of climate action
Governance at the Managing Board level The Managing Board addresses sustainability-related risks,
At Siemens, sustainability is rooted in all that we do, including opportunities and impacts of strategic and company-wide
our business purpose and strategy, corporate culture, pro- importance and adopts appropriate measures. The Managing
cesses, and guidelines. The management of sustainability Board also approves any changes to the DEGREE sustainability
matters is embedded across our Siemens businesses, Service framework.
and Governance units, and countries. Sustainability has also
been an integral component of management compensation The Sustainability Executive Committee (EC SUS) acts as
since fiscal 2020. guidance body for Siemens sustainability business focus
along our value propositions of (i) decarbonization and
As the top management body, the Managing Board is energy efficiency, (ii) resource efficiency and circularity as
responsible for serving Siemens’ best interests and achieving well as (iii) people centricity and social impact – with a focus
sustainable growth in the company’s value. The members of on portfolio market segments and go-to-market topics. It
the Managing Board are jointly responsible for the entire meets approximately once per quarter on an ad hoc basis to
management of Siemens and decide on key issues of busi- discuss relevant issues. Chaired by Siemens’ CEO, the EC SUS
ness policy and company strategy, including Siemens’ sus- includes Siemens’ Chief Sustainability Officer, the CEOs of
tainability strategy. The Managing Board aims to ensure that key businesses, Chief Strategy Officer, General Counsel, and
the risks and opportunities for Siemens connected with Global Head of SUS.
environmental, social, and governance factors and the envi-
ronmental, social, and governance impacts of Siemens’ The Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB) monitors and
activities are systematically identified and assessed. The resolves Siemens’ sustainability topics, including tracking
company strategy gives due consideration to business tar- the progress of our DEGREE ambition, providing input and
gets as well as environmental and social objectives. Company guidance on sustainability reporting and governance, and
planning encompasses both financial targets and sustain- acting as a catalyst for regional sustainability initiatives with
ability-related objectives. the potential to scale across Siemens. The SSB is composed
of representatives from Siemens’ businesses, countries, and
The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Managing Service and Governance units. The SSB meets four times per
Board in its management of Siemens’ business. At regular year or more frequently as needed. The SSB provides updates
intervals, the Supervisory Board discusses business develop- and recommendations to the Managing Board.
ment, planning, strategy (including sustainability strategy)
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 147
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Topics associated with climate change appeared regularly on of carbon credits and the Sustainability related risk due dili-
the agenda of EC SUS and SSB meetings in fiscal 2024 and gence process in customer related business. The Sustainabil-
included, for example, our updated SBTi Net-Zero Targets or ity department also supports sustainability initiatives with
decarbonization efforts related to our portfolio. scalability across Siemens. This includes developing the
processes, training, and tools needed to address overarching
The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) oversees Siemens’ sustainability topics for our countries, businesses, and Ser-
sustainability topics. The CSO is a member of the Siemens vice and Governance units in collaboration with other
Managing Board, chairs the Siemens Sustainability Board Siemens organizations. Finally, the Sustainability depart-
(SSB), and is a member of the Sustainability Executive Com- ment is responsible for developing strategic considerations
mittee (EC SUS). The CSO is also responsible for the Siemens for the Siemens sustainability business focus in alignment
Sustainability department. with the Managing Board, EC SUS, and the CEOs.
In addition to our strategic sustainability activities, the CSO CEOs are ultimately responsible for all sustainability topics in
ensures that we operate in compliance with our EHS regula- their area of responsibility. This includes responsibility for
tions. The EHS Governance department supports this by the sustainability business focus, implementation of DEGREE,
providing oversight and guidance. Our EHS Principles, sustainability reporting, and the Sustainability related risk
defined within our EHS Policy framework, provide internal due diligence process in customer related business.
binding regulations for this purpose. Siemens has estab-
lished expert panels to ensure the integration of environ- The CEOs of Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens
mental considerations in our decision-making. The Global Mobility, and Siemens Financial Services (SFS) are supported
Board EHS consists of EHS managers who release environ- by their respective Heads of SUS to achieve their sustainabil-
mental protection regulations and programs and provide ity mandates. The Heads of SUS also assist the Global Head
advice to the Chief People and Sustainability Officer in con- of SUS with their responsibilities in the Sustainability depart-
sultation with the Siemens Sustainability Board. Additionally, ment, as they pertain to their businesses. Heads of SUS have
the Head of the EHS Governance department directly advises a governance reporting line to the Global Head of SUS in
the Chief People and Sustainability Officer. addition to their reporting line to their respective CEOs. The
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION, CDP 2023 C1, Heads of SUS are appointed by the respective CEOs, in align-
OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK ment with the Global Head of SUS.
Governance at the business and management levels In addition, the CEOs of the business units in Digital Indus-
The Global Head of Sustainability (Global Head of SUS) leads tries, Smart Infrastructure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS each
the Siemens Sustainability department. In this capacity, the appoint Sustainability Managers who have a governance
Global Head of SUS reports to the CSO on all Siemens sus- reporting line to the Heads of SUS and to their reporting line
tainability topics excluding our sustainability business focus to their respective CEOs.
and related strategy topics. For the latter topics, the Global
Head of SUS reports to Siemens’ CEO. The Global Head of Lead Country SUS Managers support their respective Lead
SUS is a regular member of the SSB and the EC SUS. The Country CEOs and their assigned countries. They also lead
Global Head of SUS regularly informs the Supervisory Board Siemens’ sustainability topics within the scope of responsi-
on sustainability matters. bility of Lead Country management.
The Siemens Sustainability department is responsible for Our Service and Governance units are responsible for the
developing and controlling our DEGREE sustainability frame- ongoing development of sustainability-related topics within
work and ambitions achievements in coordination with the their own mandate in line with the DEGREE sustainability
SSB, businesses, Service and Governance units, and coun- framework and regulatory, reporting and organizational
tries. Responsibility for CSRD and related sustainability requirements. These topics include environmental protec-
reporting and the Net Zero Operations Program also lies with tion, employee health and safety, compliance, and supply
the Sustainability department. It also governs the purchase chain management sustainability topics.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 148
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Sustainability Risk Due Diligence Subject Matter Experts are Siemens is a leading technology company with an offering
appointed by and support Digital Industries, Smart Infra- designed to drive the digital and sustainable transformation
structure, Siemens Mobility, and SFS to responsibly conduct of industries, buildings, electrification, mobility, and health-
the Sustainability related risk due diligence process in cus- care. We believe that many technologies that help solve
tomer related business. global challenges like climate change already exist today.
Now is the time to scale sustainability impact by making
Mandated by the Global Board EHS, Siemens’ Environmental technology more easily accessible to everyone.
Council evaluates the environmental risks, opportunities,
and trends relevant to Siemens’ Businesses based on uniform To further increase our positive impact, we believe that
criteria and reports their findings to Siemens Enterprise Risk working in ecosystems is the best way to create seamless
Management. The council is composed of environmental solutions for our customers and their specific challenges.
experts from our business units and countries and experts in Through ecosystems and partnerships, we can increase our
corporate governance, environmental protection, supply own sustainable offering and enable our customers’ sustain-
chain, sustainability, finance, technology, real estate, and ability transformation. Siemens Xcelerator is our open digital
insurance. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION and business platform, an ever-growing ecosystem, and an
OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK evolving marketplace. It provides access to technology that
makes the digital transformation and sustainability out-
Our strategic response to climate-related comes faster, easier, and more scalable for companies of all
opportunities and risks sizes. For instance, our GridScale X enables utilities to scale
In preparation for the upcoming ESRS disclosure require- their grid capacity and increase visibility, which is essential
ments under the CSRD, we are currently developing disclo- for grid decarbonization. GridScale X is part of the Xcelerator
sure on our climate transition plan in accordance with the portfolio that supports the decarbonization of our customers
ESRS. Our climate transition planning includes both climate and also includes Electrification X and Building X. Electrifica-
transition and adaptation activities to manage our cli- tion X helps manage entire energy networks and tackles the
mate-related impacts, risks and opportunities. Our climate challenges of the energy transition. Building X is a digital
transition plan comprises our efforts and targets aimed at building platform that digitalizes, manages, and optimizes
reducing our emissions footprint across the value chain in building operations.
line with our upgraded commitments validated in line with
the SBTi Net-Zero standard. In addition, it also entails our By combining the real and digital worlds, we support our
efforts to enable our customers to achieve their sustainabil- customers along key impact areas:
ity goals and to contribute to a decarbonized economy via
our portfolio impacts. These impacts are reflected in our Decarbonization & energy efficiency
disclosure on customer avoided emissions. For more infor- We support our customers in their efforts to decarbonize
mation, please see the following sections on our strategic their infrastructure and operations with carbon footprint
response and management of climate-related opportunities management, renewables integration, electrification, and
and risks as well as related metrics and targets. energy efficiency. A key proof of our positive impact on
decarbonization is the high volume of emissions we help
The DEGREE sustainability framework includes the sustain- avoid: Our offerings sold in fiscal 2024 will contribute to
ability-related topics important for Siemens, including 173 million metric tons of Customer Avoided Emissions over
decarbonization and resource efficiency, for which we have the course of their lifetime (144 million metric tons of emis-
set ambitious targets (see paragraph “Metrics and targets”). sions without the Innomotics portfolio). For instance, our
These targets, in conjunction with our overall Science-Based energy-efficient products and solutions support the transi-
Targets initiative-validated (SBTi) decarbonization target, tion from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, and our
apply to Siemens’ own operations and to our upstream and electrification solutions support renewable grid integration
downstream value chain. and the electrification of heat and hydrogen. Across indus-
tries, we offer energy optimization and carbon footprint
management throughout our products’ lifecycles and supply
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 149
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
chains. In buildings, we offer energy efficiency and decar- low-carbon economy – a development that confirms our
bonization solutions, such as smart buildings and smart company strategy. Although there are uncertainties about
energy management for a reduced carbon footprint. Our rail the impact of climate-related changes, we consider the
systems offer low-carbon mobility and increased energy transition to a low-carbon economy as an opportunity. A
efficiency. favorable political and regulatory environment including the
transition towards a low-carbon economy could restore a
Resource efficiency & circularity more positive industrial investment sentiment that supports
Our approach to circularity aims to do more with less for our the growth of our markets. In addition, government initia-
customers, the planet, and society. Siemens’ circularity frame- tives and subsidies (including tax reforms, green and digital
work covers the whole value chain through three dimensions. industrial policies, R&D among others) lead to more govern-
First, we create circular products by designing for sustainable ment spending (e.g. infrastructure, healthcare, mobility or
materials, optimal use, and value recovery. We optimize sec- digitalization investments) and may ultimately result in an
ondary material use and improve production efficiency to opportunity for us to participate in ways that increase our
minimize resource consumption. Second, we embrace circular revenue and profit. Investments to strengthen countries’
business by aiming to enhance and preserve value through resilience, energy and food security, as well as to diversify
lifetime-extending services and the reuse of products and value chains close to major markets (reshoring, nearshor-
components, and finally close the loop by recovering value. ing), as well as global outbound investment programs can
Third, we empower our customers’ circularity by supporting present opportunities to businesses. By enabling our cus-
the creation of circular products with our software portfolio. tomers to reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
We provide solutions for optimized, resource-efficient cus- using our portfolio and by reducing CO2e emissions in our
tomer operations and generate value through innovative own operations, Siemens strives to support the transition
business models and partnerships. For instance, our technolo- towards a low-carbon economy. Siemens also welcomes and
gies in the industrial metaverse, digital twins, and AI reduce supports legislative and governmental measures to acceler-
the need for physical assets by simulating, predicting, and ate the mitigation of climate change, such as through the
optimizing them in order to maximize the product lifetimes, Green Deal Industrial Plan or sustainable finance initiatives
minimize resources, and boost circularity. Our building solu- in Europe, as long as these measures do not create market
tions contribute to optimized space utilization and ultimately distortion and unfair competition or cause companies con-
increase resource efficiency. Our mobility solutions focus on tributing to sustainability to exit specific markets.
enhanced network capacity and extended lifecycles, thereby SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT,
preventing significant new infrastructure build-up. In addition, CHAPTER 8.4, OPPORTUNITIES, CDP 2023 C2.4
products with the Siemens EcoTech Profiles are required to
fulfill criteria across three areas – value recovery and circular- Potential transition risks (e.g., regulation, market, and tech-
ity, optimal use, and sustainable materials – that promote nology) and physical climate-related risks are assessed in our
greater circularity. STRATEGY, OUR DEGREE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME­ risk process. In this process, we have generally identified the
WORK risk of an increasing sustainability focus. Governments
around the world continue to increase their focus on sustain-
Climate­related opportunities and risks ability topics, resulting in the risk of increased costs to com-
Climate-related opportunities and risks are integrated into ply with new laws and related reporting requirements. In
our company-wide Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) pro- addition, increasing stakeholder and investor focus on sus-
cess. ERM at Siemens is based on a net risk approach in tainability topics brings reputational risk should our sustain-
which the risks and opportunities are addressed that remain ability commitments, targets and activities be perceived as a
after implementing existing, effective measures and controls. deceptive use of green marketing or otherwise not credible.
Climate change litigation has become a worldwide phenom-
As a global technology company and innovation leader in enon with a corresponding risk to Siemens as a large corpo-
the fields of electrification, automation, and digitalization, ration. We address these risks in a variety of ways including
Siemens supports sustainable industrialization. These topics through our sustainability framework DEGREE, in which we
are becoming increasingly important in the transition to a have set ambitious sustainability targets. DEGREE includes
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 150
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
measures to reduce our carbon and raw material footprint and a high-emissions scenario. The scenarios covered in this
along with other initiatives addressing ESG topics more analysis ranged from a net-zero scenario corresponding to a
generally. We have implemented an ESG due diligence pro- transition in line with a 1.5°C compatible temperature path-
cess that supports Siemens businesses with due diligence in way, up to a 3.0°C temperature pathway. The analysis con-
the customer-oriented environment with a view to possible firmed our commitment to a net zero world in which our
environmental and social risks as well as related human markets and therefore our business would generally benefit,
rights and reputational risks. Finally, we believe our overall overcompensating potential transition risks. Particularly
portfolio is very well positioned to meet the current and noteworthy are additional opportunities in the field of elec-
future sustainability needs of our customers and the societ- trification and rail transport under a net zero scenario, which
ies in which we operate. would result in less market potential under the high emis-
SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, sions scenario.
CHAPTER 8.3 RISK MANAGEMENT, CDP 2023 C2.3
As described in the STRATEGY CHAPTER, there are several
In addition to our company-wide ERM process, we anticipate megatrends that are driving us to rethink established ways
additional climate-related gross risks for which risk mitiga- of doing things. These megatrends and their impacts are
tion measures are in place and the remaining net risk does reshaping the needs of our customers and markets. To create
not exceed our internally defined threshold to be reported a holistic picture of potential futures, we conduct sustain-
within our ERM process. There are also additional climate- ability scenario analyses that enable us to map impacts and
related opportunities which are already being realized, e.g. risks, identify opportunities, and find new ways to create
the reduction of operating costs by increasing resource and value. Strategic insights are derived from scientific frame-
energy efficiency as well as energy price independency works like the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s
which are being managed as part of our approach to decar- (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) and
bonize our operations. Another example is the shift of cus- Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) as well as market
tomer preferences towards products and solutions that have trends.
a reduced negative impact on climate change. Focused on
the areas of automation and digitalization, intelligent infra- These scenarios are guiding the development of our sustain-
structure for buildings and distributed energy systems, ability strategy. For instance, we see circularity as a key
electrification as well as smart mobility solutions for rail solution to help keep human actions within planetary
transport, the Siemens portfolio is making a key contribution boundaries. It allows us to respond to changing customer
to the transition to a low-carbon economy. needs and regulatory demands. Circularity is an opportunity
to create more value with finite resources, minimize energy
Analysis of climate­related scenarios and resource use, support CO2e emissions reductions, and be
Scenario analyses are part of our ongoing processes to identify more resilient in the face of market volatility. Megatrends
and analyze climate-related risks and opportunities and to also shape regulations like the Corporate Sustainability
develop further our planning with regard to climate transi- Reporting Directive (CSRD), which will standardize reporting
tion and adaptation effects. on environmental, social, and governance topics, and the
EU Taxonomy, a classification system that makes environ-
Different climate-related scenarios are used at Siemens for mentally sustainable economic activities transparent. We
different purposes: for instance, for our business strategy integrate regulatory requirements into our strategic sustain-
and decarbonization strategy and to identify opportunities ability steering, which provides an important proof point of
and risks. Our decarbonization target, which is approved by our dedication to scaling sustainability impacts in our port-
the Science-Based Targets initiative, is aligned with the Paris folio, across our sites, and along our value chain.
Climate Agreement’s 1.5°C target.
By providing innovative technologies, we see ourselves as a
In fiscal 2024, we conducted a climate scenario analysis to leading decarbonization partner to our customers and soci-
identify climate-related sensitivities within our markets and ety in general. To fulfill this role, we need to have a precise
test the resilience of our business model under a net-zero understanding of the technological changes that must be
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 151
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
made in the next few decades and beyond. We rely primarily Climate risks in the risk management system
on scenarios from S&P Global (formerly IHS Markit), IEA, and The consideration of sustainability and climate-related risks
BloombergNEF to plan our business strategy and identify and opportunities is an integral part of our regular top-down
company-wide risks and opportunities. These scenarios help process that communicates material issues and trends at risk
us, for example, to identify trends in the energy and mobility workshops to the relevant company units so they can iden-
markets. For business planning purposes, we apply different tify risks and opportunities. As a result, issue-related recom-
scenarios like the S&P Global Green Rules (our baseline sce- mendations are available to all businesses at their quarterly
nario), Inflections, and two net-zero scenarios (ACCS, MTM); reviews. In fiscal 2024, several climate-related topics were
and IEA STEPS, APS, NZE, and BloombergNEF New Energy on the agenda of the top-down process, which then provided
Outlook (Economic Transition Scenario, net-zero scenario). input to the annual ERM process on topics that included
These scenarios help us predict market developments, assess among others climate adaptation and data requirements for
the implications of various scenarios, and make business sustainability reporting.
decisions on this basis. With a view to our own business,
analyzing climate-related scenarios allows us to predict the In conjunction with the bottom-up approach, these mea-
potential consequences in terms of regulatory requirements, sures enable a comprehensive overview of our business
R&D, and customer trends and requirements. Our business activities and the related risks and opportunities.
units also conduct business-specific scenario analyses.
CDP 2023 C3.2 Climate change is not treated as a separate category in the
ERM approach; it is considered within the four topic areas of
We also apply different climate scenarios to assess physical strategic, operational, financial, and compliance-related
climate-related risks and opportunities (see paragraph “Man- risks. Risk processes have been implemented upstream
agement of climate risks in our own operations”). throughout the company to assess potential climate-related
net risks for ERM reporting.
Our risk management approach to climate-
related opportunities and risks Material opportunities and risks are disclosed on an aggre-
Climate-related risks and opportunities are embedded in the gated basis within the abovementioned four topic areas in
Siemens-wide ERM approach. All identified climate risks are the Siemens annual report. SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024,
assessed and measures for risk prevention, transfer, or miti- COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8, CDP 2023 C2
gation are devised for all relevant risks.
Management of climate risks in our own operations
Risk management at Siemens builds on a comprehensive, Climate change mitigation
interactive and management-oriented Enterprise Risk Man- We have set ambitious decarbonization targets that apply to
agement (ERM) approach that is integrated into the organi- Siemens’ own operations and to our upstream and down-
zation and that addresses both risks and opportunities. Our stream value chain (see paragraph “Metrics and targets”).
ERM process aims for early identification and evaluation of,
and response regarding, risks and opportunities that could The reduction of GHG emissions in our own operations is
materially affect the achievement of our strategic, opera- integrated into Long-term Incentive (LTI) compensation as
tional, financial, and compliance objectives. The time horizon part of an internal Siemens ESG/Sustainability Index that is
is typically three years, and we take a net risk approach, applicable to members of the Managing Board and senior
addressing risks and opportunities remaining after the management (Siemens without SHS). Anchoring the reduction
execution of existing and effective measures and controls. of GHG emissions in this system and the responsibility of
A detailed description of our enterprise risk management each of our businesses for reducing its prorated emissions
basic principles and process can be found in our SIEMENS are key elements of our management approach and require
REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8.3 regular monitoring. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND ORGANIZATION
RISK MANAGEMENT. SIEMENS REPORT FOR FISCAL 2024, COMBINED
MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8, CDP 2023 C2
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 152
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Climate change adaptation Taxonomy regulation for activities substantially contributing
We continuously monitor and assess the development of to an environmental objective. The assessment of physical
physical risks, particularly natural hazards. Utilizing both climate-related risks on relevant manufacturing sites, project
externally sourced and internally collected data, we provide sites, and relevant suppliers’ sites related to the respective
objective risk information essential for securing insurance activity under the EU Taxonomy is verified by technical
coverage. Our assessments, conducted by TÜV SÜD Global experts. The assessments are based on data provided by
Risk Consultants (GRC), indicate that Siemens surpasses Swiss Re and include future hazards associated with climate
industry standards in risk protection, with an average rating change, e.g. cyclone, hurricane, typhoon, heavy precipita-
of over 80 compared to the industry average of approxi- tion, or wildfire, using the IPCC scenario SSP5-8.5. Where
mately 70. significant risks have been identified, measures are defined
and adaptation plans implemented within 5 years.
Analyses have consistently shown that Siemens locations
maintain low risk levels due to a robust protection frame- Climate change is also having an impact on water supply.
work. In collaboration with GRC, we are developing new Water is one of humanity’s most important resources. For
measures to further enhance our protection standards. Nat- this reason, Siemens has been analyzing and managing
ural hazard inspection programs are being developed with water-related risks, including water scarcity, water pollution,
appropriate external experts, setting a new benchmark climate change, and flooding and precipitation patterns at
starting with two locations in Lower Saxony and Bavaria. our sites for several years. We recognize our responsibility
Since our last report, we have implemented several improve- for sustainable water use, including preparing for the
ments. Our decision-making process for selecting new sites impacts of climate change that may affect the water balance.
and developing sustainable, long-term protection measures
is based on comprehensive risk analysis, with a particular We establish water targets at multiple sites to account for
focus on natural hazards and their changes due to climate the specific local environment and to drive effective mitiga-
change. Last fiscal year, we conducted several global training tion measures. At the corporate level, we have implemented
sessions, attended by qualified external specialists to a defined water strategy, and have conducted risk assess-
strengthen our business continuity management and stan- ments to shape local water targets. The aim of Siemens’
dardize our business impact analysis, especially concerning Water Strategy is to minimize local adverse effects of our
natural hazards. Additionally, a comprehensive business water consumption. It is structured in such a way that it can
impact analysis is being carried out for our production and be fully integrated into the EHS management systems.
development site in Amberg, Bavaria. The goal is to ensure CONSERVING RESOURCES, CDP 2023 C2, CDP 2023 WATER SECURITY
future-proof operations.
Management of climate risks along our value chain
We employ a range of systems and meticulously compare Climate change mitigation
parameters acquired from sources like Swiss RE (RDS), Zurich As part of our updated science-based targets we raised our
Resilience Solutions (ZRS), and Verizon Maplecroft. To miti- ambition, pledging to reduce our entire absolute Scope 3
gate valuation scatter, we conduct comparisons of the emissions, upstream and downstream, by 30% by fiscal 2030
respective data. Through GRC, we conducted an analysis for compared to fiscal 2019 (previously – 15% in the same time-
all our locations as part of the property management pro- frame).
gram, based on data from Munich Re Risk Management
Partners, and reevaluated risk-specific recommendations. In For CO2e emissions generated in our supply chain, we set the
addition to the desktop analysis of our risks based on various ambition for Siemens without SHS to reduce emissions by
valuation models, we carry out physical inspections at 20% by fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2020, and over the
selected locations. long term to achieve Net Zero emissions in the supply chain
by fiscal 2050. This ambition is also part of our DEGREE
In fiscal 2024, we continued to perform Do No Significant sustainability framework. More details on our decarboniza-
Harm (DNSH) assessments with regard to future physical tion targets for the supply chain and DEGREE KPI can be
climate risks in the context of our reporting under the EU found in SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 153
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
In our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program, we collaborate sions, please see our REPORTING PRINCIPLES FOR CUSTOMER
with an external partner to analyze the economic data and AVOIDED EMISSIONS, CLIMATE ACTION.
model the carbon footprint of each of our suppliers. To
facilitate this process, we utilize a web-based tool called Climate change adaptation
supplier+s that highlights the main sources of suppliers’ We analyze potential risks in our supply chain, including
CO2e emissions and provides guidance on how to reduce environmental risks. We centralize sustainability-related
them. Once suppliers have completed the learning phase, data about our suppliers on the SCM Sustainability Platform,
they provide us with their primary data through the tool. which enables us to collect information from diverse internal
SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES and external sources. This includes data on carbon reduction
initiatives, our sustainability self-assessments, on-site audit
Our Research and Development (R&D) activities are geared results, and risks associated with conflict minerals. All
towards developing innovative and sustainable solutions for employees in Siemens’ purchasing departments can access
Siemens’ customers and businesses, while simultaneously this integrated tool.
strengthening our competitive positioning. Our sustained
high investment in R&D underscores our commitment to Metrics and targets
addressing key sustainability challenges. In fiscal 2024, we Siemens considers climate-related risks and opportunities
reported in our continuing operations research and develop- along the entire value chain. Accordingly, we define metrics
ment expenditures of €6.3 billion and employed 51,600 R&D for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain,
professionals dedicated to driving forward innovation. in the company’s own operations, and in the goods and
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT services we provide to our customers.
To make our portfolio’s contribution to decarbonization Our validated 1.5°C Science-Based Net-Zero Target, along
transparent, we report the amount of CO2e emissions that with our DEGREE decarbonization targets and our member-
our products and solutions avoid compared to reference ship in the RE100, EV100, and EP100 initiatives, is strength-
solutions. Customer Avoided Emissions (CAE) represent the ening our climate protection strategy.
difference between the CO2e emissions of a Siemens offering CLIMATE ACTION, CDP 2023 C3, C4, C6, C7, C9 AND C12
and the CO2e emissions of a baseline or reference scenario.
Science­Based Target
At Siemens we have developed our own method that meets By upgrading our existing science-based target commitment
our standards for high-quality and transparent metrics. We to comply with the stricter SBTi Net-Zero Standard, we have
calculate the avoided emissions for all products and services demonstrated our commitment to aligning our business
sold and investments made by Siemens in each fiscal year over activities with the 1.5°C decarbonization pathway, consistent
the course of their entire use phase at our customers. We aim with the Paris Climate Agreement’s 1.5°C target.
to capture the decarbonization effect our portfolio has within
the following three impact categories: energy efficiency, Siemens has pledged to reduce absolute emissions from its
increase in renewable energy, and electrification. These own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 90% and from its value
decarbonization effects can be achieved either on a product chain (Scope 3) by 30% by fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2019.
level or on a system level (for end-use solutions or intermediary
solutions), in line with the WBCSD eligibility criteria. We also commit to Net-Zero by fiscal 2050, reducing abso-
lute emissions across our value chain by 90% by fiscal 2050
In fiscal 2024, we implemented methodological adjustments compared to fiscal 2019, with any residual emissions perma-
to our approach that resulted in an expanded portfolio that nently compensated.
allows us to calculate our CAE impact. In fiscal 2024, we
helped our customers avoid 173 million metric tons of CO2e DEGREE targets
emissions (144 million metric tons of CO2e emissions with- As part of our DEGREE sustainability framework (without
out the Innomotics portfolio). For a detailed description of Siemens Healthineers), we set an ambition for all Siemens
our methodology for calculating Customer Avoided Emis- production facilities and buildings worldwide and our vehicle
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 154
7.4 Task Force on Climate­Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
fleet (own operation Scope 1 and 2) to reduce the CO2e Scope 1 dematerialization along the entire value chain. Our aim
and 2 emissions in Siemens’ business operations for Siemens has been to intensify the use of Lifecycle Assessments and
without Siemens Healthineers (SHS) by 90% by fiscal 2030, Environmental Product Declarations, which will allow us
compared to fiscal 2019 (DEGREE ambition #1). To achieve this to identify environmentally compatible design alterna-
ambition, Siemens pledged in fiscal 2022 to invest an additional tives, that are supported by the specific Ecodesign criteria
€650 million in its own decarbonization efforts by fiscal 2030. that can be integrated into our product specifications. Our
Any residual emissions will then be compensated with ambition is to apply Robust Eco Design to our relevant
high-quality carbon credits that meet established standards. hardware, software, and service portfolio by 2030.
To drive additional transparency on our journey to fiscal T he portion of our relevant hardware, software, and
2030, we set an ambitious interim reduction target for our service portfolio that incorporates Robust Eco Design
business operations at Siemens without SHS of 55% by fiscal stands at 54% compared to 41% in the year 2023.
2025 compared to fiscal 2019. We are proud to have reached
our ambition one year in advance. 2. Clean Supply Chain: Building on the Robust Eco Design
phase dematerialization, the Clean Supply Chain category
As part of our updated science-based targets we increased in the Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program module maps
our ambition by pledging to reduce our entire absolute our path to decoupling natural resource use from our
Scope 3 emissions, upstream and downstream, by 30% by economic growth. We maintain effort to use secondary
fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2019 (previously –15% in the materials for metals and resins and implement a circular
same timeframe). economy.
For CO2e emissions generated in our supply chain, we set the In fiscal 2024, we purchased 35% of the metals – primar-
target for Siemens without SHS to reduce emissions by 20% ily iron, copper, and aluminum used in the manufacture
by fiscal 2030 compared to fiscal 2020, and over the long of our products – from recycled sources and remain
term to achieve Net Zero emissions in the supply chain by stable in comparison to 2023. We also sourced 1% of the
fiscal 2050. This ambition is also part of our DEGREE sustain- resins used to make our products from recycled sources.
ability framework. More details on our decarbonization
targets for the supply chain and DEGREE KPI can be found in 3. Efficient Own Operations: The component Efficient Own
SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES, CLIMATE ACTION, CDP 2023 Operations of our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program aims
C4 AND C6 to reduce the environmental impact of our sites by
enhancing waste management and using clean energy
Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program effectively, as well as implementing dematerialization
Our Eco Efficiency @ Siemens program addresses environ- and circular economy principles. We focus on improving
mental factors specific to our locations and our relevant our energy efficiency and reducing the environmental
hardware, software, and service portfolio and our production. impact of the waste we generate. When it comes to envi-
It also defines targets for improving our environmental ronmentally responsible energy use, we focus on reducing
management: for instance, by encouraging a circular economy emissions from power generation, in addition to minimiz-
and dematerializing our business processes. ing energy consumption itself. As part of our commit-
ment, we aim to improve our overall energy efficiency by
The program has three components: 10% by 2030 compared to 2021. To calculate energy
efficiency, we analyze our energy consumption in relation
1. Robust Eco Design (RED) approach: At the center of the to sales development.
Responsible Product Development program component is
our Robust Eco Design approach. Our Ecodesign approach D ue to reduced energy usage by 16.9%, we increased our
is also embedded in the field of action Resource efficiency energy efficiency by 53% in fiscal 2024 compared to
in our DEGREE sustainability framework. The main objec- fiscal 2021. CONSERVING RESOURCES, HOLISTIC ENVIRONMENTAL
tive is to introduce methods and rules for circularity and PROTECTION, PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 155
7.5 GRI Standards – key topics and boundaries
7.5
GRI Standards – key topics and boundaries
Sustainability topics SDGs DEGREE GRI Standard
Climate action1 GRI Standard 305
DECARBONIZATION
Emissions
Innovation and GRI Standard 201
DECARBONIZATION
business model Economic Performance
R ESOURCE EFFICIENCY
GOVERNANCE
Cybersecurity and
E THICS
data management
Social and ecological standards GRI Standard 414
GOVERNANCE
in the supply chain Supplier Social Assessment
GRI Standard 308
Supplier Environmental
Assessment
Corporate governance and GRI Standard 413
GOVERNANCE
sustainability leadership Local communities
Partner management GRI Standard 203
GOVERNANCE
and collaboration Indirect Economic Impacts
DECARBONIZATION
ESG risk management GRI Standard 201
GOVERNANCE
Economic Performance
E THICS
Compliance management GRI Standard 205
GOVERNANCE
Anti-Corruption
E THICS GRI Standard 206
Anti-Competitive Behavior
GRI 2-27
Compliance with laws and regulations
GRI Standard 408
Child Labor
GRI Standard 409
Forced or Compulsory Labor
1 Top two material sustainability topics. Result of the assessment of organizational impacts (inside-out, i.e., on the environment
and society), stakeholder relevance and business criticality (outside-in).
The detailed GRI Standard Index 2021 is available on our Sustainability website.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 156
7.5 GRI Standards – key topics and boundaries
Sustainability topics SDGs DEGREE GRI Standard
Sustainable product design and
RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
life cycle management1
Waste and hazardous substance GRI Standard 306
RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
management Waste (2020)
Sustainable handling of natural GRI Standard 301
RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
resources and material efficiency Materials
GRI Standard 302
Energy
GRI Standard 303
Water and Effluents (2018)
GRI Standard 306
Waste (2020)
Diversity, equity, and inclusion GRI Standard 405
E QUITY
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI Standard 406
Non-Discrimination
Future of work GRI Standard 401
E QUITY
Employment
E MPLOYABILITY GRI Standard 403
Occupational Health and
Safety (2018)
GRI Standard 404
Training and Education
GRI Standard 405
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI Standard 406
Non Discrimination
Employee development GRI Standard 404
E QUITY
Training and Education
E MPLOYABILITY
Employee health and safety GRI Standard 403
E MPLOYABILITY
Occupational Health and
Safety (2018)
1 Top two material sustainability topics. Result of the assessment of organizational impacts (inside-out, i.e., on the environment
and society), stakeholder relevance and business criticality (outside-in).
The detailed GRI Standard Index 2021 is available on our Sustainability website.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 157
7.6 WEF IBC Metric
7.6
WEF IBC Metric
Pillars Theme Core metrics Reference Omission
Principles Governing Setting purpose Sustainability Report 2024
of Gover­ purpose The company’s stated purpose, as the expression of the means by Siemens at a glance
nance which a business proposes solutions to economic, environmental p. 7 ff
and social issues. Corporate purpose should create value for all
stakeholders, including shareholders.
Quality of Governance body composition Annual Report 2024
governing Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Annual Financial Statements
body competencies relating to economic, environmental and social topics; 3. Notes, Note 31 Members
executive or non-executive; of the Managing Board and
independence; Supervisory Board p. 18 f
tenure on the governance body; WWW.SIEMENS.COM/
GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/ABOUT/
number of each individual’s other significant positions and
LEADERSHIP.HTML
commitments, and the nature of the commitments;
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/
gender; EN/COMPANY/ABOUT/
membership of under-represented social groups; LEADERSHIP/SUPERVISORYBOARD/
stakeholder representation. COMMITTEES.HTML
Stakeholder Material issues impacting stakeholders Sustainability Report 2024
engagement A list of the topics that are material to key stakeholders and the Materiality assessment
company, how the topics were identified and how the stakeholders p. 21 ff
were engaged.
Ethical Anti­corruption Sustainability Report 2024
behaviour 1. Total percentage of governance body members, employees and Compliance p. 34 ff
business partners who have received training on the organiza- Our sustainability indicators
tion’s anti-corruption policies and procedures, broken down by p. 117 ff
region.
a) T otal number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed
during the current year, but related to previous years; and
b) T otal number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed
during the current year, related to this year.
2. Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to
improve the broader operating environment and culture, in
order to combat corruption.
Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms Sustainability Report 2024
A description of internal and external mechanisms for: Compliance p. 34 ff
1. Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behaviour and Our sustainability indicators
o rganizational integrity; p. 117 ff
2. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour and
lack of organizational integrity.
Risk and Integrating risk and opportunity into business process Annual Report 2024
opportunity Company risk factor and opportunity disclosures that clearly Combined Management Report 8.
oversight identify the principal material risks and opportunities facing the Report on expected develop-
company specifically (as opposed to generic sector risks), the ments and associated material
company appetite in respect of these risks, how these risks and opportunities and risks p. 20 ff
opportunities have moved over time and the response to those
changes. These opportunities and risks should integrate material
economic, environmental and social issues, including climate
change and data stewardship.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 158
7.6 WEF IBC Metric
Pillars Theme Core metrics Reference Omission
Planet Climate Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Sustainability Report 2024
change For all relevant greenhouse gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, Climate action p. 65 ff
nitrous oxide, F-gases etc.), report in metric tonnes of carbon Conserving resources p. 73 ff
dioxide equivalent (tCOe) GHG Protocol Scope 1 and Scope 2 Our sustainability indicators
2
emissions. p. 117 ff
Estimate and report material upstream and downstream
(GHG Protocol Scope 3) emissions where appropriate
TCFD implementation Sustainability Report 2024
Fully implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Task Force on Climate-Related
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). If necessary, disclose Financial Disclosures
a timeline of at most three years for full implementation. (TCFD) p. 147 ff
Disclose whether you have set, or have committed to set,
GHG emissions targets that are in line with the goals of the Paris
Agreement – to limit global warming to well below 2°C above
preindustrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C –
and to achieve Net-Zero emissions before 2050.
Nature loss Land use and ecological sensitivity Sustainability Report 2024
Report the number and area (in hectares) of sites owned, leased or Conserving resources p. 73 ff
managed in or adjacent to protected areas and/or key biodiversity Our sustainability indicators
areas (KBA) p. 117 ff
Freshwater Water consumption and withdrawal in water stressed areas Sustainability Report 2024
availability Report for operations where material: megalitres of water with- Conserving resources p. 73 ff
drawn, megalitres of water consumed and the percentage of each Our sustainability indicators
in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress, p. 117 ff
according to WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool.
Estimate and report the same information for the full value chain
(upstream and downstream) where appropriate.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 159
7.6 WEF IBC Metric
Pillars Theme Core metrics Reference Omission
People Dignity and Diversity and inclusion (%) Sustainability Report 2024
equality Percentage of employees per employee category, by age group, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
gender and other indicators of diversity (e.g. ethnicity). p. 98 ff
Our sustainability indicators
p. 117 ff
Pay equality (%) Sustainability Report 2024 Siemens pursues
Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration for each employee Working at Siemens the principle of
category by significant locations of operation for priority areas of p. 91 ff performance-
equality: women to men, minor to major ethnic groups, and other Our sustainability indicators related compen-
relevant equality areas. p. 117 ff sation – regardless
of gender.
Remuneration
data is regarded
confidential and
is therefore not
reported.
Wage level (%) Siemens pursues
Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local the principle of
minimum wage. performance-
Ratio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the median related compen-
of the annual total compensation of all its employees, except the sation – regardless
CEO. of gender.
Remuneration
data is regarded
confidential and
is therefore not
reported.
Risk for incidents of child, forced or compulsory labour Sustainability Report 2024
An explanation of the operations and suppliers considered to Human Rights p. 50 ff
have significant risk for incidents of child labour, forced or Sustainable supply chain
compulsory labour. Such risks could emerge in relation to: practice p. 55 ff
a) type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type of Business Conduct Guidelines:
supplier; and HTTPS://ASSETS.NEW.SIEMENS.
COM/SIEMENS/ASSETS/API/
b) countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers
UUID:121E8FD4­AA7C­4A09­
considered at risk. 9A25­8C9F3EBEFC2E/SAG­
BCG­DE.PDF
Health and Health and safety (%) Sustainability Report 2024
well being The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; Occupational health and safety
high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); management
recordable work-related injuries; main types of work-related injury; p. 107 ff
and the number of hours worked. Our sustainability indicators
An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access p. 117 ff
to non-occupational medical and healthcare services, and the
scope of access provided for employees and workers.
Skills for the Training provided (#, $) Sustainability Report 2024
future Average hours of training per person that the organization’s Professional education and
employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by gender lifelong learning p. 102 ff
and employee category (total number of hours of training Our sustainability indicators
provided to employees divided by the number of employees). p. 117 ff.
Average training and development expenditure per full time
employee (total cost of training provided to employees divided by
the number of employees).
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 160
7.6 WEF IBC Metric
Pillars Theme Core metrics Reference Omission
Prosperity Employment Absolute number and rate of employment Sustainability Report 2024
and wealth 1. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the Professional education and
generation reporting period, by age group, gender, other indicators of lifelong learning p. 102 ff
diversity and region. Our sustainability indicators
2. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting p. 117 ff
period, by age group, gender, other indicators of diversity and
region.
Economic contribution Annual Report 2024,
1. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D), Consolidated Financial
on an accruals basis, covering the basic components for the Statements, 6. Notes p. 7 ff
organization’s global operations, ideally split out by:
– Revenues
– Operating costs
– Employee wages and benefits
– Payments to providers of capital
– Payments to government
– Community investment
2. Financial assistance received from the government: total
monetary value of financial assistance received by the organi-
zation from any government during the reporting period.
Financial investment contribution Annual Report 2024,
1. T otal capital expenditures (CapEx) minus depreciation, supported Consolidated Financial
by narrative to describe the company’s investment strategy. Statements, 6. Notes, Note 19
2. Share buybacks plus dividend payments, supported by narrative Equity p. 26
to describe the company’s strategy for returns of capital to Annual Financial Statements
shareholders. 3. Notes, Note 15 Shareholders’
equity p. 11
Innovation Total R&D expenses Sustainability Report 2024
of better Total costs related to research and development Research & Development
products and p. 13 ff
services
Community Total tax paid Annual Report 2024,
and social The total global tax borne by the company, including corporate Consolidated Financial
vitality income taxes, property taxes, non-creditable VAT and other sales Statements, 6. Notes, Note 2
taxes, employer-paid payroll taxes, and other taxes that constitute Material accounting policies and
costs to the company, by category of taxes. critical accounting estimates
p. 7 ff;
Annual Financial Statement,
3. Notes, Note 13 Deferred tax
assets p. 10
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 161
7.7 SASB – Electrical Electronic Equipment Index
7.7
SASB – Electrical Electronic Equipment Index
Codified
Topic metric code Disclosure Reference Omission
Energy RT-EE-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed Sustainability Report 2024:
Management Environment – Conserving resources,
RT-EE-130a.1 (2) Percentage grid electricity
p. 73 ff (Energy used reduced),
Our sustainability indicators, p. 117 ff
RT-EE-130a.1 (3) Percentage renewable
Hazardous RT-EE-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste Sustainability Report 2024:
Waste generated, percentage recycled Environment – Conserving resources,
Management p. 73 ff, (Efficient Waste management),
Our sustainability indictors, p. 117 ff
RT-EE-150a.2 Number and aggregate quantity Sustainability Report 2024:
of reportable spills, quantity Environment – Conserving resources,
recovered p. 73 ff, (Incident relevant to the
environment),
Our sustainability indictors, p. 117 ff
Product Safety RT-EE-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total not applicable Siemens has established a compre-
units recalled hensive, company-wide product
safety system to ensure that our
products comply with applicable
legal safety requirements and meet
the latest technical safety standards
so that they do not pose a threat to
the life or health of users or other
third parties. Under this system, all
company units are required to ensure
that their products comply with the
state of the art in safety matters. The
units are also obliged to conduct
systematic product monitoring and
take the necessary corrective actions
to remedy potential product safety
deficiencies.
RT-EE-250a.2 Total amount of monetary Annual Report 2024, Consolidated
losses as a result of legal Financial Statements, 6. Notes,
proceedings associated with Note 22 Legal proceedings p. 27
product safety
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 162
7.7 SASB – Electrical Electronic Equipment Index
Codified
Topic metric code Disclosure Reference Omission
Product RT-EE-410a.1 Percentage of products by Sustainability Report 2024:
Lifecycle revenue that contain IEC 62474 Environment – Product stewardship
Management declarable substances p. 79 ff
Our sustainability indicators, p. 117 ff
RT-EE-410a.2 Percentage of eligible products not applicable
by revenue that meet ENERGY
STARR criteria
RT-EE-410a.3 Revenue from renewable Sustainability Report 2024:
energy- related and energy Environment – Climate action, p. 65 ff,
efficiency-related products EU Taxonomy, p. 86 ff,
Our sustainability indicators, p. 117 ff
Materials RT-EE-440a.1 Description of the management Sustainability Report 2024:
Sourcing of risks associated with the use Environment – Product stewardship,
of critical materials p. 79 ff (Risk-conscious handling of
declarable substances),
Sustainable supply chain practices,
p. 55 ff (Responsibility for the world-
wide supplier network)
Business RT-EE-510a.1 Description of policies and Sustainability Report 2024:
Ethics prac-tices for prevention of: Compliance and ethics, p. 34 ff
(1) corruption and bribery and
(2) anti-competitive behavior
RT-EE-510a.2 Total amount of monetary Annual Report 2024, Consolidated
losses as a result of legal Financial Statements, 6. Notes,
proceedings associated with Note 22 Legal proceedings p. 27
incidents relating to bribery or Sustainability Report 2024:
corruption Compliance and ethics, p. 34 ff
RT-EE-510a.3 Total amount of monetary Annual Report 2024, Consolidated
losses as a result of legal Financial Statements, 6. Notes,
proceedings associated with Note 22 Legal proceedings p. 27
anti-competitive behavior Sustainability Report 2024:
regulations Compliance and ethics, p. 34 ff
Activity RT-EE-000.A Number of units produced by not applicable
Metric product category
RT-EE-000.B Number of employees Sustainability Report 2024
Working at Siemens p. 91 ff
Our sustainability indicators, p. 117 ff
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 163
7.8 United Nations CEO Water Mandate
7.8
United Nations CEO Water Mandate
Progress report Our supply chain partners
Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO The environmental protection requirements for our supply
Water Mandate in 2008. We are continuing to support the chain partners are set out in the Siemens Group Code of
Mandate in two ways: by managing water efficiently at our Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries.
own facilities and by providing solutions that help our More information on these requirements and on supply
customers handle water and wastewater more efficiently. chain management is available in the SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY
CHAIN PRACTICES section of this report.
Our own activities
We are continuing to implement the approach to water Our customers
resource management that we developed in 2012. This We support our customers with water management solu-
includes monitoring factors like water scarcity, water pollu- tions, including the following.
tion, flooding, environmental fire risks, and consequences of
climate change as well as performing site-specific risk analyses. Leak detection
Individual goals and measures are defined for locations with Non-revenue water not only impacts the economic perfor-
high water-related risks. This approach minimizes the mance of water supply companies; it also increases pressure
site-specific adverse impacts of our water consumption by on natural water resources, because more water is produced
taking into account local risks like water scarcity, water and processed than is actually needed. Thanks to our tech-
pollution, and flooding in environmentally sensitive areas. nological innovations, Siemens can detect leaks with the
Further information about conserving resources and water help of AI. Leaks in the pipeline network were responsible for
consumption at Siemens’ locations can be found in the about 10% of the water supplied by the Swedish water
ENVIRONMENT section of this report. company VA SYD that never reached consumers. With SIWA
Leak Finder, VA SYD now relies on artificial intelligence (AI)
Our individual sites implement their own water initiatives in to detect and repair leaks in its water distribution networks
alignment with our targets. Many sites, for instance in China and reduced the non-revenue water down to less than 8%.
and in Germany, use rainwater for sanitary facilities, watering
plants and cleaning building exteriors. Siemens India’s
sustainable water management includes measures such as
utilizing water-efficient appliances, installing rainwater
harvesting systems at four major factory locations, and
building water reclamation facilities (zero liquid discharge
facilities). These measures enable us to reduce freshwater
consumption by, among other things, utilizing treated water
for landscaping and toilet flushing. In addition, Siemens
operates its own water treatment plants in some locations.
The treatment facilities in India, for instance, treats process
water from production operations so that it can be used for
purposes including irrigating the site’s green spaces.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 164
7.8 United Nations CEO Water Mandate
Upgrade of process control technology and simulation Social commitment
of a digital twin Through our memberships in international organizations, we
Austria’s largest wastewater treatment project in Vienna is participate in numerous initiatives and projects like the
using wastewater to generate energy and improve the city’s water project on the Action 2020 platform of the World
climate balance. The operator, ebswien kläranlage & tierservice, Business Council for Sustainable Development. We initiate,
chose Siemens’ Simit simulation platform to accurately implement, and support projects that foster efficient water
simulate and optimize plant processes. This project aims for use in various regions of the world. The Siemens Stiftung,
energy self-sufficiency using renewable sewer gas. Since Siemens’ nonprofit foundation in Germany, employs an
2021, the plant has been energy-positive, making it a signif- entrepreneurial approach to supplying communities with
icant environmental achievement for Vienna. clean drinking water. One example is described below.
Partnerships to reduce water loss The WeTu social enterprise in Kenya
In line with our pledge to be an agile and active market The WeTu social enterprise founded by Siemens Stiftung
leader, we go beyond traditional distributorships and works on innovative solutions for supplying energy and
increasingly rely on collaborations in a variety of areas. drinking water to communities in Western Kenya near Lake
We’ve signed collaboration agreements with component Victoria. Its WeWater unit operates 13 water dispensing
manufacturers like Hach Analytics and with global players stations at various locations that supply the surrounding
such as Acciona (desalination). This is how our company and rural communities with safe, filtered drinking water at
our partners will be able to meet our customers’ require- economical prices.
ments and offer them a comprehensive, innovative product
and system portfolio, a local presence worldwide, and our In a multistage process, surface water is processed through
usual high quality while also remaining cost-effective. various prefilters, an ultra-filtration membrane, and finally
UV disinfection. Drinking water is dispensed around the
clock by way of a cashless ATM system. This approach
supplies almost 4 million liters of drinking water to 15,000
people. A variety of social marketing measures also alert
customers about how contamination can occur in home use
and how contaminated drinking water affects health.
Please find further information about Siemens Stiftung
projects at: WWW.SIEMENS­STIFTUNG.ORG/PROJECTS/WETU/
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 165
7.9 Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Sustainability Information
7.9
Independent Practitioner’s Report
on a Limited Assurance Engagement
on Sustainability Information
To Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and Munich Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality
We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Management
disclosures in the sustainability report in chapter 1 to 7.2 of We have complied with the German professional provisions
the “Sustainability report 2024” of Siemens Aktiengesell- regarding independence as well as other ethical require-
schaft, Berlin and Munich, (hereinafter “the Company”), for ments.
the period from 1 October 2023 to 30 September 2024
(hereinafter the “Report”). Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and
professional standards – in particular the Professional Code
Responsibilities of the Executive Directors for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors
The executive directors of the Company are responsible for (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buch-
the preparation of the Report in accordance with the principles prüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality
stated in the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Management 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschafts-
Reporting Initiative (hereinafter the “GRI-Criteria”). prüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW):
Requirements to quality management for audit firms (IDW
This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes Qualitätsmanagementstandard 1: Anforderungen an das
the selection and application of appropriate methods of Qualitätsmanagement in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW
sustainability reporting as well as making assumptions and QMS 1 (09.2022)), which requires the audit firm to design,
estimates related to individual sustainability disclosures, implement and operate a system of quality management
which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the that complies with the applicable legal requirements and
executive directors are responsible for such internal controls professional standards.
as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation
of a Report that is free from material misstatement whether Practitioner’s Responsibility
due to fraud or error. Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion
on the disclosures in the Report based on the assurance
engagement we have performed.
Within the scope of our engagement, we did not perform an
audit on the information in “Foreword”, chapter 7.3 to 7.11,
as well as external sources of information or expert opinions,
referred to in the Report.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 166
7.9 Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Sustainability Information
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance Assurance Conclusion
with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued causes us to believe that the disclosures in the Company’s
by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and Report for the period from 1 October 2023 to 30 September
perform the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude 2024 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in
with limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention accordance with the GRI-Criteria.
that causes us to believe that the disclosures in the Company’s
Report for the period from 1 October 2023 to 30 September Intended Use of the Assurance Report
2024 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed
accordance with the GRI-Criteria. with the Company. The assurance engagement has been
performed for purposes of the Company and the report is
In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of
are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engage- the assurance engagement. The report is not intended to
ment and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance provide third parties with support in making (financial)
is obtained. The assurance procedures selected depend on decisions. Our responsibility lies solely toward the Company.
the practitioner’s judgment. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties.
Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we per- Munich, 2 December 2024
formed amongst others the following assurance procedures
and further activities: PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
→ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustain-
ability organization and of the stakeholder engagement Ralph Welter Hendrik Fink
→ Assessment of the process for conducting the materiality Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer
analysis in accordance with the GRI criteria [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor]
→ Inquiries of employees and inspection of documents
concerning the sustainability strategy, sustainability
principles and sustainability management including the
stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG
→ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the
Report regarding the preparation process, the internal
control system relating to this process and selected disclo-
sures in the Report
→ Inquiries and inspection of documents relating to the
collection and reporting of selected data at Group level, at
the level of the Industrial Businesses and at selected sites
→ Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement
of the Report under consideration of the GRI-Criteria
→ Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Report
→ Evaluation of the presentation of the selected disclosures
regarding sustainability performance
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 167
7.10 Notes and forward-looking statements
7.10
Notes and forward-looking statements
This document contains statements related to our future This document includes – in the applicable financial reporting
business and financial performance and future events or framework not clearly defined – supplemental financial
developments involving Siemens that may constitute measures that are or may be alternative performance
forward- looking statements. These statements may be measures (non-GAAP-measures). These supplemental financial
identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” measures should not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives
“anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” to measures of Siemens’ net assets and financial positions or
“will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may also results of operations as presented in accordance with the
make forward-looking statements in other reports, in pro- applicable financial reporting framework in its Consolidated
spectuses, in presentations, in material delivered to share- Financial Statements. Other companies that report or
holders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives describe similarly titled alternative performance measures
may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. may calculate them differently.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and
certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, of which
many are beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a
number of risks, uncertainties and factors, including, but not
limited to, those described in disclosures, in particular in the
chapter Report on expected developments and associated
material opportunities and risks in the Combined Management
Report of the Siemens Report (siemens.com/siemensreport).
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize,
should decisions, assessments or requirements of regulatory
authorities deviate from our expectations, should events of
force majeure, such as pandemics, unrest or acts of war,
occur or should underlying expectations including future
events occur at a later date or not at all or assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements of
Siemens may (negatively or positively) vary materially from
those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-
looking statement. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes
any obligation, to update or revise these forward- looking
statements in light of developments which differ from those
anticipated.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 168
7.11 Further information and information resources
7.11
Further information and information
resources
Additional information
The online version of the Siemens annual financial report
2024 is available at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUALREPORTS
Further sustainability information
Further information on our commitment to sustainability and
sustainability figures are available at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/SUSTAINABILITY.HTML
W WW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/SUSTAINABILITY/
SUSTAINABILITY­FIGURES.HTML
Further information on research, development, and innovation
at Siemens is available at:
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/INNOVATION.HTML
Further information on Siemens Stiftung is available at:
WWW.SIEMENS­STIFTUNG.ORG/EN/
© 2024 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 169
Address Siemens AG
Werner-von-Siemens-Str. 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Internet www.siemens.com
Phone + 49 (0)89 7805-33443 (Media Relations)
+ 49 (0)89 7805-32474 (Investor Relations)
Fax + 49 (0)89 7805-32475 (Investor Relations)
Email press@siemens.com
investorrelations@siemens.com
© 2024 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich